The level of uncertainty is extremely
high.
>> Things seem to be in a free fall. You
don't want to catch a falling knife.
Equity markets and markets generally are
resilient.
>> We still see a compelling stock or
equity story ahead.
>> It's just so difficult to determine
what's going to happen next in this
market. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, the war enters week five.
Brent crude adding to the biggest
monthly gain on record as Iranbacked
Houthy militants are beginning to enter
the conflict. And the post indicating
the Pentagon is preparing for a ground
operation. escalation risk is rising
>> and we're seeing uh oil poised for the
biggest one-month gain on record. As
people start to reckon with this sort of
escalation risk, you're starting to see
real fear bake into markets. Not only
are you starting to see the concern
about some sort of slowdown uh being
expressed in bond markets, but you're
seeing uh five consecutive weeks of
losses in the S&P 500 for the first time
going back to 2022 and a feeling this
isn't going to be a short conflict. and
attempting to work out to process what
the president's talking about in a
conversation with the Financial Times.
To be honest with you, my favorite thing
is to take the oil,
>> right? I think what he's talking about
there maybe Car Island where 90% of
Iran's oil has to go through that island
as it goes through the straight of
Hermoose potentially. That is one option
that is on the table. There's a lot of
reporting though, Jonathan, not just
from the Washington Post about the
ground invasion potentially with
thousands of troops already in the
region, but also the Wall Street Journal
had this out overnight that the
president is weighing a military
operation to extract nearly a,000 pounds
of uranium from Iran. So, at this
moment, it does feel like the president
is keeping all options on the table
because he told reporters last night,
Air Force One that maybe this week
there'll be a deal via the Pakistanis.
>> Lisa mentioned the bond market move.
Let's talk about it. twos, tens, and
30s. Yields lower across the curve so
far this morning. 10ens down by three to
about 440. You will have noticed going
into the weekend, the stocks closed at
the lows and so did the 2-year yield.
Are things getting so bad it's good for
fixed income?
>> Yeah. And I keep thinking about uh what
we were talking about with Bob Michael
of JP Morgan Asset Management last week
when he said, "You've seen a technical
move, a wash out of positioning, and we
now can have a healthier kind of trade
in the bond market. Suddenly people are
worried about second order effects, the
disinflationary ramifications and
frankly the suppression to growth as a
result of high oil prices. You're
starting to see that baked into
multiples. You're starting to see that
baked into the bond market. How far can
that go?
>> Crude. Check out the new forecast. These
from Sockgen and Michael Hey. We expect
Brent to average 125 through the month
of April and credible spikes towards
150. That's the latest from Sockgen. to
lift their 26 year end Brent forecast
from 65 to $80 a barrel.
>> This is because right now what you have
in the paper market, it is nowhere near
the higher elevated prices you see in
the physical market, especially out of
the Middle East. And guess what? Things
over the weekend got even more
complicated when the Houthis decided
they were going to enter the war. At the
moment, the Red Sea Baba Deb straight
flow their flows when it comes to cargos
and vessels. But the Houthis have shown
that they have the capability to go
after those ships. And then at that
point, you'd be looking at straight of
Hermoose close as well as Baba Mandab
straight. You have two choke points in
the Middle East.
>> Futures this morning doing a little bit
better. It's a bounce following five
weeks of losses on the S&P 500 up by
just a third of 1%. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Lori Calvacina of
RBC with stocks on a fiveweek losing
streak. General Masten Robinson of
Academy Securities as the US forces
build up near Iran and Bob McN of Rapid
and Energy Group with crude back near
multi-year highs. We begin this hour
with our top story. Fresh strikes
ripping across the Middle East as
President Trump threatens to take
Iranian crude. Bloomberg's Jamala Beti
leading our coverage out of the region
and gives us some time this morning.
Jamala, welcome to the program. I read
that quote from the president to the FT.
To be honest with you, my favorite thing
is to take the oil. What's the reaction
across the region this morning?
Well, the reaction is that there has
been no progress on the diplomatic
front. And you know, a little earlier on
in the day when President Trump was
speaking to reporters, he seemed to
suggest that maybe Iran would come to to
the negotiation table and that perhaps
there is a possibility of signing a deal
in the next few days. And you saw
futures and stock markets turn on that.
But the reality on the ground paints a
very different picture. And to your
point, President Trump seems to be
implying that more military action is
forthcoming. We were talking about the
arrival of that first unit, the Marine
Expeditionary Unit. It came to the
region on Friday, 3,500 troops, about
2,200 Marines. Questions really about
where they're going to be deployed.
Remember, this isn't a huge number of
troops, and they would be capable of
perhaps going into these targeted raids.
There's been some discussion about a
potential takeover of Kar Island.
obviously very risky. Wall Street
Journal also reporting that they could
be deployed into inland territory and
perhaps look to uh conduct an operation
to take out that enriched uranium
stockpile. But again, a very risky
operation as well or they could be just
sent there as a means of deterrence. The
reality is we just don't know. But in
terms of the military operations over
the weekend, I will tell you once again
we have seen a massive uptick in
intensity. Uh on Friday evening uh
Israeli operations conducted some
strikes against two steel uh facilities
in Iran uh some nuclear research sites
and in retaliation to that Iran once
again lush back at Gulf States
infrastructure hitting uh two key
aluminium smelters in the region that's
having an impact on aluminium prices
this morning. A key air base in Saudi
Arabia, the Prince Sultan air base. The
US sustained some critical damage there
on some of their own jets. uh also a
dissalination plant in Kuwait and then
add to the mix as you were just talking
about a new front has opened up which is
the very fact that the Houthies have
decided to enter into the conflict. They
launched some attacks on Israel on
Saturday morning and the big question
from here is whether they are going to
start disrupting shipping again in the
Red Sea. And just a bit of a history
reminder here for viewers. Uh the
Houthies did sign a truce with Saudi
Arabia back in 2022. They also signed a
truce with the US in May 2025. Since the
Israel Gaza ceasefire of October 2025,
they have not done anything on the Red
Sea, but they reserve the right to do
so. And I think this is the big risk as
we head into the next couple of days and
whether really another front and this
conflict opens up, not just on the
Persian Gulf, but also now on the Red
Sea. And given how much oil Saudi Arabia
has managed to divert from the Persian
Gulf to the Yanbu ports, clearly a risk
for oil markets as well. Let's see if
that truce holds. Jamaa, thank you.
Appreciate the coverage as always.
Jamala Bachi there leading our coverage
out of Dubai. Policy makers are
scrambling. You're seeing it around the
world. Cats are cutting rates. Australia
h havinging its fuel tax for several
months. South Korea considering
expanding driving curves. The latest
from the Bloomberg team earlier on this
morning.
>> It's a physical problem particularly in
Asia, particularly in South Korea, even
uh throughout the region with a question
of physical goods not getting delivered.
And that's the sort of difference a lot
of commodity strategists keep pointing
out.
>> Let's get to the view on Wall Street
this morning. This from Lori Calverina
of RBC writing, "Stock pickers can be
reluctant to bake in macro concerns
until their companies start to openly
worry about them. It may simply take
more time for the equity community to
fully understand the impacts from an
extended conflict." Lori joins us now
for more. Lori, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We've had a correction of almost 9% on
the S&P 500 from the highs. There's some
multiple compression in there, which
begs the question, is this an
opportunity? At the same time, we
haven't cut earnings expectations. So,
what's your advice this morning?
>> So, look, I think we kind of have to
take it one day at a time. And I know
that's not a satisfactory answer. Um,
but the reality is that, you know, at
8.7% from the January peak, we are still
within what we would call a tier one
draw down. Now, if you go back to the
financial crisis, we've actually seen
that there, and you kind of use that as
your starting point, we haven't had any
draw downs. Um, if you take the postGFC
high that have ended up between 10 and
14%. um if you go past 10, you're going
to the teens, right? And there's a
little bit of an air pocket between the
two. And I think what we're confronting
right now is if this is going to stay
relatively contained, right? If this is
going to be relatively short duration,
you've seen things like AI net bulls are
between minus1 and minus2 standard
deviations. That's enough. Um but if we
are going to have a more extended
conflict and we're going to start sort
of saying, okay, this isn't just an
inflation shock, it's a growth shock.
The US is not as immune as we thought.
That is something that could take you
into tier 2 uh draw down territory.
Growth scares tend to involve periods in
which something new happens. We don't
understand it. It feels like things are
out of control and people genuinely
start to fear a recession. We are not
there yet, but we have to keep a very
close eye on the narrative to see if
that's where it's headed.
>> I'm sure clients are all asking you the
same question. Is it an inflation shock,
a growth scare, either or or just a
sequencing question? I would say that
most CL so I was on the road for four
days last week um and what we
essentially saw was that most clients
are more in the this is going to create
some inflationary pressures camp we are
seeing a lot of people sort of defend
the resilience of the economy the strong
point coming in and to be fair to those
clients you are seeing this in all of
the seuite survey data that has come out
including ones that had a little bit of
the post-war period in them um you're
also seeing I have read I think
everything an S&P 1500 or Russell 3000
company has said at a conference or on
an earnings call and I've read read all
the smids because they gave you great
information in this period but they are
generally for the most part still sort
of talking about this resilience their
ability to work around things we're
seeing a few companies make adjustments
in terms of things like fuel costs or
guidance but not a lot and so there you
know this is all going into the ears of
the US equity investors now I will tell
you John as the week wore on last week I
started to get a couple questions about
growth impacts towards the end of the
week I had one client
you know, sort of say if we look at
what's going on in Europe and Asia, can
the US really stay immune from that?
This same client thought that this
conflict would go on a few months. He
was the only person last week who told
me it would go on a few months. Everyone
else was debating one week or a couple
of weeks.
>> Based on the fact that you've seen
profits reacelerate, actually earnings
expectations continue to increase. Do
you think this market's being overly
complacent or do you think that we're
close to a wash out that seems like a
buying opportunity?
>> I don't think that we are being
complacent. Um, frankly, you know, this,
and I kind of knew this heading into
last week as well, but we are seeing a
lot of people not doing a lot. Like,
they're fishing around for trades.
They're trying to figure out what to do.
We know a lot of hedging activity has
been put on, and people don't feel
great. That is not complacency to me.
But at the same time, we have seen the
bottom up S&P 500 EPS forecast. It was
like at 313 to start the year, then it
dipped down to 312, and now we're all
the way up to 323, and we just added
three bucks over the last week. So, you
know, it's you're seeing this help out
the multiples. And if you look at the
S&P bottom up market cap weighted PE um
we were at 28 times last fall. We were
up around 25 times earlier before the
war started and then we are now you know
sitting down around 21 times. Now I
don't think it's a wash out yet because
you are not at the average which is 18
and a half and in 2022 when the broader
market bottomed on that 25% draw down
you dipped a little bit below the
average. So is it is it improvement?
Yes. Is it helpful? Yes. Is it a hold
your nose and buying opportunity? I
don't think we're quite there yet.
>> The more that the bond market thinks
that this is potentially a growth scare,
does that add to the attractiveness of
stocks given the fact that we've done
all of this with increasing rate
expectations?
>> Yeah. So, look, I think that when I talk
to investors, nobody, at least in my
meetings, is looking for rate hikes,
right? I think what we're much more
sensitive to are 10-year yields. Um, and
you know, we actually worsened one of
our stress tests. We had been looking
for four and a half sort of in like the
$100 extended oil scenario. Um, we took
our inflation numbers up in our stress
test. We took 10 tenure yields up to
five. That tends to be the number that
spooks equity investors. But I'll tell
you, Lisa, I had like five flavors of
earnings in the stress test, keeping
like that 15% growth that's in the
consensus now and then going all the way
down to 10% contraction versus 2025. I'm
coming up with a range of like 5700 to
7,400. And if you look at kind of like
the more benign earnings assumptions,
you can get a flat market this year even
with some pretty ownorous numbers. So,
we have to pay attention to what's going
on with earnings. We have to pay
attention to what's going on with the
inflation rate. But the 10-year yield is
also a key variable, and the lower it
is, the better it's going to be for the
multiple.
>> We've got some big names in a lot of
pain as well. Just last week, Microsoft
down by close to 7%, Meta down by double
digits. I know you won't do single
names, but let's talk about big tech.
>> Yeah,
>> a lot of these issues predate this war.
>> Is this war becoming a convenient excuse
for something that was already
developing? Well, look, I think that we
benefit in the US and and it kind of
leveled out midmon, but you know, we
sort of saw initially in this conflict
that the US was benefiting as a safe
haven trade outperforming the rest of
the world. And if you look at pees for
US versus Europe versus Canada versus
Australia. So just take like a landscape
of global developed markets, we were
seeing the S&P PE coming down heading
into this crisis. And so we already had
a lot of d-risking on private credit
fears, on AI fears, which really frankly
perked up last day. At the same time,
these other markets, their pees were
moving up. So, we got to this Iran
conflict and the US had lost its
valuation premium if you looked at a
five-year average. And if you even
looked at a 20-year time frame, we had
lost that valuation premium in the US as
well. So, you know, the earnings are
still looking pretty strong in that mega
cap growth cohort, we've seen the rate
of upward revision skyrocket in the top
10 market cap names back to last fall's
highs. Um, and if you look at that 323
number I mentioned and you just look at
like a 26 uh growth rate versus 25, tech
is the thing that's driving the way. So,
you also have to figure out a way if you
really want to push this market into
really negative territory in a
sustainable way. You've really got to
attack those tech earnings.
>> Lori, it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Thank you, Lori
Cavsina there of RBC Capital Markets.
Pretty phenomenal. Amazing. Just try and
get your head around this. Crude has
ripped the biggest monthly move we've
seen on record. if we close at these
levels. And yet here we are pricing in a
better outlook for earnings on the S&P
500.
>> Yuri and Timmer put it really well over
at Fidelity. He said the S&P 500 index
uh is down 9.2%.
But the PE ratio is down 18%. This is
all being led by multiples going down
even though the earnings are actually
increasing. And this speaks to a lot of
the positivity that you're hearing under
the hood.
>> Futures on the S&P positive by a third
of 1%. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahara has more. Hi Yhara.
>> Good morning, John. President Donald
Trump says he's ready to make a deal
with Iran. Speaking to reporters on Air
Force One, the president saying Iran is
giving the US most of the demands from
its 15point peace plan. Iran still
disputes there are negotiations.
A confirmation hearing for Kevin Worsh
could be held the week of April 13th.
Punchful reporting. The Senate's banking
committee is planning to hold a hearing
for President Donald Trump's nominee for
Federal Reserve chair in two weeks time.
And President Xiinping inviting Taiwan's
main opposition leader to visit mainland
China, setting up a high stakes meeting
weeks before a planned summit with
President Trump. Changi Wan will visit
China from April 7th through 12th,
marking the first such visit in nearly a
decade. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yahihara
later this hour. Up next on the program,
looking for a deal.
>> Could you see a deal in Iran this
upcoming week?
>> I do see a deal in Iran. Yeah,
>> Mr. President.
>> Could be soon, but you never know with
Iran because we negotiate with him and
then we always have to blow him up.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with General Masten Robertson of Academy
Security. He's live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Here is your week ahead. Later on this
morning, check it out. 10:30 a.m.
Eastern time, you will hear from the Fed
chair. That is going to be muscle list
and must watch later on this morning
going into a big week full of economic
data. How important is this data? How
dated is the data Bremo coming this
week?
>> I actually think we'd always be focused
on the jobs report, but instead on
Wednesday, we get ISM manufacturing and
prices paid. And that might be the most
important data point of the week because
everyone's looking for the real-time
increase in costs to companies. That
might be the fastest and most current
look we can get on that.
>> Heading into that week full of data,
equity markets look like this. Futures
positive by 4/10en of 1% on the S&P, up
a third on the NASDAQ. In the bond
market, yields lower by 34 basis points
on a 10-year 439. And in crude, a
record-breaking rally for the month so
far. Brent 115 and up another 2% under
Sylvanas this morning looking for a
deal.
The one regime was decimated, destroyed.
They're all dead. The next regime is
mostly dead. And the third regime, we're
dealing with different people than
anybody's dealt with before. It's a
whole different group of people. So, I
would consider that regime change.
>> Could you foresee a deal in Iran this
upcoming week?
>> I do see a deal in Iran. Yeah,
>> Mr. President.
>> Could be soon, but you never know with
Iran because we negotiate with them and
then we always have to blow them up.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Iran war showing no signs of letting go.
The US sending thousands of additional
troops to the region as Amarie,
Iranianbacked Houthis join the conflict.
>> And I think this is really a massive
escalation risk at the moment. We do
know the Houthis have the capability.
They did this in 2023 in terms of going
after vessels in the Red Sea. And right
now, the Red Sea has become critical for
this crisis because over the weekend, we
also got other news. Saudi Arabia's East
West pipeline is now at capacity of what
it's able to move through that pipeline.
It is now moving 7 million barrels a
day. This is a huge feat for Saudi
Arabia. But all that oil is going to
Yanboo, which is on the Red Sea. And if
the Houthis decide to close the Bob El
Mandeb straight which is between Yemen
and Djibouti, this will be the second
choke point and then you could see
prices escalate very quickly.
>> That's the nightmare for the energy
market. Brent crude this morning at 115.
General Masten Robinson of Academy
Securities writing the following. Iran's
actions left unressed potentially sets
an illegal new normal. General Robertson
joins us now for more. General, welcome
to the program, sir. Can we pick up on
Houthi militants entering this war, this
conflict? What are the consequences of
that?
>> I don't know this it really changed
anything. I believe the Houthies have
been involved the whole time. I think
what we're missing here is that the
Houthis do not make their own decisions.
They're a proxy and they act when Iran
says, "Okay, we want you to act." And
when Iran wants them to stand down, they
have them stand down. Nobody controls
the Houthis except for Iran. And
certainly Yemen doesn't control the
Houthis or those frontier spaces that
are within their border. One individual
though, John Lieieber of your Asia group
said to me that the Houthis would rather
being basically paid off by the Saudis
instead of getting involved. Do you
think the calculus is changing for the
proxy?
>> I don't think it changed for the proxy
because I but I think the Houthies are
businessmen. Yes, they'll take money
from the Saudis and yes, they'll promise
A, B, and C, but at the end of the day,
the Houthis are owned by the the
Iranians. And the question is, do the
Houthis really believe there's still
sufficient supreme leadership authority
in Iran for them to be able to trust
that that's where their their calculus,
their money, um, their direction is
going to come from? Or has this second
or third generation of supreme
leadership authority dissipated
sufficiently to where they start to
doubt? I I have confidence that given
the decadesl long relationship Iran has
with its proxies, although not decades
long necessarily with the Houthis, um
Iran still has a firm grip in my opinion
on them largely not because of the
Supreme Leadership Authority, but
because the IRGC that that is below
that, but is intrinsically connected the
Supreme Leadership Authority. We do
though have a recent killing according
to the Israelis of the IRGC Navy
commander. Do you think this breaks down
their maritime command for the Iranians?
>> No, I think No, I think you've got to
get into the tens of thousands if not a
hundred thousands of killings of the of
the RGC if you're really going to have
an influence and effect. But I don't
think we really know. We know that
they're, you know, 250,000 in theory
strong. We know that they are just
etched in stone in relationship with the
spring leadership authority and have
been since the beginning. We don't know
how deep that etched in stone authority
and loyalty goes, but we surmise it goes
pretty deep. Which is why I don't think
what the goal here is how do we destroy
the IRGC. The goal is how do we get Iran
to a point where they're willing to
negotiate a plausible non-nuclear Iran
in the future? And and to me, that's
where the entire buck stops is how do we
get Iran to where they are not pursuing
a nuclear capability that would be
catastrophic for the world.
>> Well, how do you think we get there? I
We're not there now today, are we?
>> We are not. But I think that's the
reason you're seeing more forces sent
there. Everything is about leverage.
Everything is about how do you create
negotiation space? How do you create
enough not pain but how do you create
enough capability, threat and anxiety
that is all of this calculus combined
together of you know the the killing of
supreme leadership authorities. um the
reduction of their their capabilities,
particularly the destruction of their
navy and a lot of their air to say how
much more are they willing to sustain um
and be able to say we're still a an
entity to be to be reckoned with in the
Middle East.
>> General, when President Trump says that
he wants to take the oil in Iran, how do
you understand that?
>> I see all this as purely negotiation
strategy. If he can see something that
causes the Iranians to say,
"Okay, I didn't expect that. That's a
bridge further than I wanted." Then I
think that gives the upper hand to what
the administration is seeking. Uh what I
don't see this being is a ground
invasion like, you know, Iraq. That's I
don't see that is where we're headed. I
do see where we're headed is where the
leverage points that the administration
believes are plausible and really the
leverage points that Sentcom believes
are plausible because all of there would
be any surprise that we're doing
something against Iran at some point.
It's just the timing of when. But every
regional combat commander has in the can
campaign plans and plans against certain
scenarios that they break out, dust off,
update based on how the situation's
changed and then they expand it based on
what the current administration will
allow and authorize them to do it. Most
reasonal combat commanders are willing
to be a little more aggressive than
their electoral officials are telling
them to be. So there's always that
calculus of the military wanting to be a
little more aggressive and confident.
The administration and elected officials
saying, "Well, wait a minute. There's
more at stake here than just winning a
battle on the battlefield."
>> General, well framed as always. It's
good to see you. Thank you, sir. General
Masten Robinson there of Academy
Securities. Another Monday morning that
started on Sunday evening. Always I was
thinking to myself, it's going to be one
of those days and my goodness, the oil
price tells you everything.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Bob McN of Rapid and Energy Group
with Brent Crude over 115.
Coming off the back of the biggest
two-day loss on the S&P 500 since April
last year. Equity futures looking to
bounce. We're higher across the board
here on the S&P 500 up by 0.4% following
a fifth consecutive week of losses. On
the S&P that's the longest since 2022.
That's the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, no
better. In fact, in some places by some
measure worse. We're down by 10% in
correction territory. Down by more than
that. Some of the big names last week
got absolutely hammered. Not just
Microsoft down by close to 7% but Meta
down by 11 percentage points and much of
the pain in some of those names predates
this war
>> and has something uh that is completely
unrelated to the war which is a court
case for Meta that really undermines
some of its potential safety controls
and social media and questions about AI
advancements that are going to undercut
some of Microsoft's uh software tools.
So some of these issues have already
been percolating. It's why it's the
trifecta that people talk about. The
software concerns and AI disruption, a
concern about the oil shock, as well as
the labor market, which still kind of
sits out there as a potential risk
factor.
>> More data from the labor market coming
on Friday, something happened in the
past Friday, something switched.
Something clicked and you would have
noticed at the close when we closed on
the low in equities. We closed on the
low on two-year yields. Check out yields
this morning. The move continues. Yields
down by two on twos, down by three on
10, 440 on a 10-year yield. Are we
starting to price in the growth aspect
of all of this into the bond market
>> over the weekend? Note after note,
Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, TD Securities
saying look for that growth shock. That
is a more significant uh counterbalance.
Does this come when the market is more
balanced? You've already seen something
of a wash out of the technical
positioning, but right now people are
starting to consider, wait a second, why
are central banks going to hike rates
into potentially what could be a growth
slowdown?
>> A bit of push back to that story. Yields
getting pulled lower. Crude still
pushing higher. The problems persist 115
on Bren close to 116 squeezing out a
sixth consecutive week of gains just
last week. Brent up on the month by
almost 60%
60% for the month of March.
>> And this is because the fighting
continues. We have seen even just
overnight Iran continues to get hit from
Israeli and US strikes as well as
Iranians going after still
infrastructure and bases around the
Middle East. And at the same time,
although you've seen some reporting from
Iranian news agencies that some vessels
are able to go through, we're talking
about a very low number compared to
normal flows, Iran still controls the
strait and they're only letting certain
ships pass through
>> 11560 so far this morning. 3 hours away
from the opening bound, the cash open
just around the corner with your morning
mover as Yahihara has more. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. We are seeing the aluminum
stocks gaining this morning with Alcoa
up 8%. Century alum aluminium also up 8%
in the pre-market. Attacks on two major
Middle Eastern uh producers are
threatening one of the biggest
disruptions this market has seen in
years at a time when inventories are
already tight. So we are seeing the
price of aluminum on the LME surging.
The industrial metal is used in
everything from autos to airplanes to
food packaging. We are also seeing oil
stocks moving higher this morning. Uh
Exxon up 1.6%. 6% as this supply shock
already one of the biggest in history
moves past the one month mark with
investors seeing no escal no uh end in
sight. So we continues to see crude
surging as you said red crude on track
for its biggest monthly gain on record.
And we end on Pelaton. Those shares up
3% in the pre-market after being up
nearly 9% on Friday after investor Eric
Jackson of EMJ Capital said he is long.
The stock saying the market has not
caught up to its fundamentals driven
turnaround. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara later on this morning.
On our radar this morning, the war
entering week five. of Iranbacked Houthi
militants entering the conflict,
launching ballistic missiles at Israel
Saturday morning following US and
Israeli strikes on Iranian nuclear
facilities. Elsewhere, the president
claiming Iran is agreeing with most of a
15-point plan to end the war. Iran
saying it rejected the plan and
disputing Trump's claims about
negotiations. Thran insisting on its own
five-point plan, including war
reparations. And finally, the president
saying he wants to quote take the oil in
Iran. In an interview with the Financial
Times, the president saying the US may
take Car Island, the country's main fuel
hub.
>> So, a lot of questions around how
serious this is. We were just talking to
General Masten, who is saying that he
thinks this is looking for leverage. I
found this interview really interesting
from the push back that the president
was given to all of the criticisms that
he's been getting with respect to the
war. It's going to cost too much. Seize
the oil. It's potentially uh we're not
getting anything. He said, "Well,
actually, we got this big gift. You said
it was BS, but actually it was a number
of ships from Pakistan that were allowed
to go through the street. One after
another, he's talking about how they've
already had regime change. The people
we're dealing with are a totally
different group of people. They are very
professional. All of these signals that
he's paying attention to some of the
criticisms out there that keep peppering
his administration.
>> The individuals he's talking about
saying they're very professional are
like Muhammad Galibah, which is out on
Twitter constantly trolling this
administration. He was out last night
talking about what is going on in
financial markets. When it comes to the
oil comment, what struck me is that the
president compared it to what happened
in Venezuela. Preference would be to
take the oil comparing it to the
potential move to Venezuela where the US
intends to control the oil industry. The
problem is this is so much harder to do
in a country like Iran. How are you
going to control the oil in a country
that is still run by this regime even
though there's changes within because
there's been targets? And the fact of
the matter is you can't unless you do
take Car Island because nine out of ten
barrels pass through that island. And
how long are you prepared to stay there
and control that island? I don't see the
US wanting to go into a protracted war
which would mean troops on Car Island
for months or years.
>> We had trade recommendations from the
Iranian government going into the
opening
>> of market trading last week. What do you
make of that Bremo? I mean, this is the
the key point is that they want oil
prices higher and the US wants oil
prices lower and you know, this is the
job voting that you're going to get with
a lot of potential AI videos that are
really entertaining.
>> Coming somewhat fascical, isn't it on
social media at the moment?
>> Yes, on actual physically like literally
it is farce.
>> Brent crude on track for a record
monthly gain as the war with Iran
continues to intensify. Bob McN rapid
and energy group writing fade
speculation on a near-term US Iran
ceasefire. US force posture points to
escalation. Bob joins us now for more.
Bob, welcome. Let's start with that
line. It's an important line. What is it
about the force posture of the US that
points to escalation?
>> Uh, great to be with you, John. So,
yeah, we're we're flowing. Uh, we have
one Marine Expeditionary Units arrived.
Another one's on the way. 82nd Airborne
uh and other forces are are moving in.
Um, we think we're likely to see some
form of ground operation. I I I'll doubt
we'll go into Car Island. Most of the
military folks I talk with just don't
understand uh the utility of that. Um
however, there are smaller islands that
are more defensible that are used by
Iran to interdict shipping. Perhaps it's
those uh but I think some form of uh US
ground force insertion is is coming.
>> But Bob, when we talk about the
president saying things like I want to
take the oil in Iran, inevitably that
would mean some sort of operation with
Car Island. No,
>> you know, it doesn't have to. I don't
understand. And I mean back in 2012 I
wrote an FT oped and I said just put a
quarantine up. You just stop all the
ships in the Gulf of Oman coming out of
Car Island. Car Island's like 5 miles
from the coast. We could take it, but
then we'd be under constant bombardment
from drones and artillery and and
missiles and things. So uh again, I'm
not a military guy. Um but the military
guys and gals I know don't really see
the need to occupy Car Island. We can
still choke off Iran's exports. We can
do that, but we can do it far away on
the water.
>> Why would this administration want to
choke off their exports when they
literally took Iran off of their
sanctions list, even including in that
general license that Americans can now
buy Iranian barrels,
>> right? So, right now, Emory, you're
right. Right now, the strategy of the
administration is put every barrel it
can into the market to try and break
crude's ascent. Okay. And so, that
you're right. uh um liberal liberalizing
access to Iranian barrels, to Russian
barrels, uh allowing Iran to export at
will, while others are constrained. Uh
you know, but if we go in and take Car
Island by force, that strategy will
obviously change. I'm just saying you
can do it in other ways.
>> Bob, there is a lot of uncertainty
around how significantly oil production
has already been disrupted in some sort
of significant way that could lead to
prolonged shortages. Do you have an
assessment of that?
We're starting to uh work that up. The
problem is this is still underway and
the uh damages are TBD, but right now um
you know I think it's 3 to four months
before the major Saudi Arabia, Kuwait,
probably maybe longer for Iraq, Romelia,
that field that 1 million barrel a day
outage there could could be much longer
term. So if you you put a gun to my head
right now, it's still underway. I'd say
on the order of 2 million barrels a day
of crude that could be lost for a long
time here. Uh now that's before we get
into any potential damage to above
ground facilities. Again, the the silver
lining so far on this cloud is we
haven't seen escalation to destroying
the facilities we'd need to process and
export that crude when those fields can
be brought back up. That would be
disastrous. Abcake Runa Terminal uh Car
Island itself haven't been physically
damaged. So that's the other thing to
watch for. If that happens, then all the
damage estimates, you know, get get
increased.
>> How much has the SPR release to the
United States and in Europe, as well as
the unsanctioned Iranian and Russian oil
potentially cushioned some of what we're
seeing in terms of actual uh production
absolutely destroyed.
>> Well, from a flow perspective, it's
marginal, right? At the most when all
the SPR barrels are flowing from the IIA
countries, you're looking at maybe a
little more than two million barrels a
day. The deficit and there's a lot of
math going around out there, but you
know, we estimate the de deficit to be
about crude and products 12 million
barrels a day or so. So obviously from a
flow perspective, uh it's not that
significant. It is however helping keep
WTI DTI down. It is cushioning the
market uh a little bit. Um but uh it's a
speed bump kind of on the on the way
higher.
>> Bob, can you translate a headline for
me? Just help me understand how
important this is or not. This came from
the president speaking to the Financial
Times. He talked about this a few times
now about these Pakistan flagged oil
tankers that have been allowed through
the straight of Hormuz. Whether that
number is 10 or whether it's 20. Can you
give us some context on that? How big is
that number relative to the amount of
traffic that would traditionally go
through the straight?
>> Yeah, John. So I you know what we
haven't even I mean it's the these
tankers we're not even sure they were
oil tankers. They may have been dry
cargo tankers. Uh it's you know if each
one at max would have been 2 million
barrels 10 million barrels uh 2 million
barrels. So uh it's just not that much.
I mean I think all of this really is
verbal intervention. You know term I
learned in the '9s working at Tutor and
watching the central banks. This is
activating this reservoir of hope and
confidence in the market that this
nightmare is going to go away. And the
president knows when he says things like
this, we almost have a deal. 10 cargos
went out. It was a gift. Uh we're
escorting tankers out. All of this, I
think, is mainly intended to uh try and
keep oil prices down and uh uh not that
doesn't reflect a real return of uh
barrels. most on a on a given day maybe
a half a half million barrels a day is
getting out but uh it's quite marginal.
>> Bob, it's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking it down. Bob Mali there of
Rapid Energy Group. It doesn't seem to
be working. Crude right now 115.
>> No, because we're not up to normal flows
and how how many ships are actually
getting through, no one really knows,
but it is less than a dozen a day. It's
about two a day potentially on average
according to tanker track trackers. And
to Bob's point there, we don't know what
kind of vessel it was. We don't know
what the cargo was. or other destination
it was. So it really does seem like it's
this is why it's a muted response.
>> Six years ago, this was the conversation
in financial markets. I'm not a doctor,
but six years later, I'm not a military
guy, but and you've said this a few
times on this show, Bremo. It's
difficult to get an edge in this story
right now. It's really, really hard.
>> It's fraught with misinformation. It's
fraught with a lack of information about
the actual production facilities that
have been affected or potentially even
destroyed. How exactly you're going to
get a foothold ahead of someone else at
a time of such quick moving news and
frankly so much disinformation out
there.
>> Equity futures just about positive so
far up this Monday morning by 0.4%.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yhara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Iranbacked Houthi forces in
Yemen have entered the war in the Middle
East for the first time. Houthis firing
missiles at Israel over the weekend and
saying they would continue operations
until attacks stop on Iran and its proxy
militant groups.
A Russian oil tanker has arrived in
Cuba. Russia's Interfax news agency
saying the ship is carrying around
100,000 tons of oil. President Trump had
said he would allow the shipment for
humanitarian reasons, saying quote,
"They have to survive."
And President Trump ordering emergency
pay for TSA agents over the weekend, but
major US airports are still urging
travelers to arrive hours earlier to get
through security lines. White House
borders are Tom Hman saying ICE agents
deployed to airports may remain for a
while. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yari, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, avoiding a
falling knife.
>> Things seem to be in a freef fall. You
don't want to catch a falling knife. you
do get concern that there is an
inflation problem that becomes broader
down the road. In the meantime, just let
the markets go to wherever they're
going.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Jordan
Rochester of Missouo, live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
the longest first quarter ever is almost
over. Just two more sessions, then we
can wrap this thing up. On the month so
far, Brent crude up by some 60%, the
biggest monthly rally on record. On the
stock side of things, energy stocks up
by double digits. Refiners on the S&P
rallying 24% through the month of March.
Check out the equity market right now.
Futures are bounced this morning on the
S&P up by 0.4% on the NASDAQ up by 0.3.
Small caps up by 0.5. Brammo. Lots of
people making up lots of stories about
what's happening with multiples. This
from Mike Wilson and Morgan Stanley. We
think the equity market is less
complacent on growth risk than consensus
believes. The S&P's forward PE ratio is
now compressed by 17% which is in the
range of prior growth scare outcomes in
the absence of a recession or the Fed
hiking.
>> Yeah, with Mike Wilson saying we're
getting to the end of this wash out
period and it's really starting to look
more attractive. It's the same point
that Fidelity was making with the idea
of multiples coming under much more
pressure even as earnings actually start
to pick up. No one can game out how big
of a downward draft this is going to be
on a lot of companies, which is why
we're watching the ISM manufacturing
index in particular prices paid on
Wednesday. It might give you the most
current up-to-date view of how much some
of the incoming costs are increasing.
>> Can you get excited about multiples
before the earnings cuts have started?
That's a question we'll ask throughout
this morning. And Sylvanas this morning,
avoiding a falling knife.
>> Things seem to be in a freef fall. You
don't want to catch a falling knife. You
do get concerned that there is an
inflation problem that becomes broader
down the road. Right now, we're still
not expecting recession. You have to go
well north of $120 a barrel for a
recession. So, in the meantime, just let
the markets go to wherever they're
going.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Traders raising bets higher energy costs
will lead to a slowdown in growth.
Global bond yields falling with the US
dollar headed for its biggest monthly
gain since 2024. Jordan Rochester of
Missouo writing, "When it comes to
understanding where we will trade, think
less about Taco and more about Nacho,
not actually changing Homer's opening."
Jordan joins us now for more. Jordan,
welcome to the program. With that in
mind, inflation versus growth. Do you
put more weight on one versus the other?
>> John, good morning. I think inflation is
the most important thing. It depends
which central bank you're talking about
though. There is of course the dual
mandate for the Fed where economists can
definitely debate about the growth
impact in the US because the labor
markets tend to be much more important
than the inflation target. But that is
just not the case in Europe with the
ECB's explicit mandate being the target
for CPI. The Bank of England as well. So
John, it depends which central bank
you're talking about. But in Europe, I
think that it's quite clear the trades
will be that the central banks respond
to this by demand destruction. the rate
hikes that are being priced in by the
market will need to be delivered John if
we stay at these levels of oil because
you will see second round effects of
inflation where in the US you've got the
energy independence you've also got a
smaller rise in energy prices natural
gas prices have barely moved in the US
therefore electricity won't be
responding in the same way that Europe
will and therefore you have to really uh
talk about the difference between the
two
>> Jordan let's talk about the US side of
things I hear a similar story we all do
repeatedly on this program just a bit of
push back the idea being the US economy
is in a stronger place, that the labor
market might be somewhat tighter,
tighter than would otherwise be known by
looking at the payrolls numbers every
single month, and the fact that this the
fiscal story is front and center, too.
We're getting tax refunds just as these
higher oil prices are hitting. Do you
think we're underestimating the
potential for second order effects?
>> I think so, John. I think never
underestimate the potential for the US
to bounce back as well. It's a very
resilient economy. You had my colleague
uh Steven Rashuto on the program just
last week I believe talking about how he
doesn't expect any Fed cuts this year
and I and that was before the war even
started. So I think John the the sort of
risk here is that we start to price in
rate hikes more aggressively to the US
than what's being given uh credit for.
But just think about the second round
effects of inflation here. So a lot of
economists talk about this being an oil
shock and they kind of forget that it's
also about polyester. It's also about
fertilizers. is also about everything to
do with helium and this will feed
through to many different parts. That's
clothing going up. That's your sort of
plastics, your consumer products also
responding. And then of course food and
the other point as well that economists
are leaning on because they don't really
want to consider the other option which
is this is going to be a quick war.
Well, what if it's not John? What if
we're here in June? What if we're in
July talking about the same thing? I
think what will have happened by that
point is you'll have a new Fed chair and
he just won't be able to deliver the Fed
cuts that the president hopes that he
will and the rest of the FOMC might be
talking about the idea of maybe we have
to raise rates.
>> Jordan, is 2022 a good point of
reference when thinking about this
moment.
>> I think it is for trading it. I think
it's a playbook that investors can lean
heavily on. In fact, if you look at how
the currency market is moving, it's
following and the credit market as well
in terms of credit spreads. is following
the 2022 movement in price action to the
letter. It's quite spooky really.
Scooby-Doo needs to be given a Scooby
snack for spotting me. But but when it
comes to economists, they will tell you
it's very very different. Uh they will
talk about how fiscal policy is not as
loose as it was. They'll talk about how
job vacancies are nowhere near as high
as they were. All these factors and the
fact that inflation and supply chains in
China are nowhere near as uh high as in
terms of uh restrictions that we had at
the time in 2022, nowhere near the same.
That's absolutely right. But I think
that if you just look at the experience
of the of the sort of 1970s and 80s,
we've had an inflation shock already.
We've now got consumers whose inflation
expectations are much more elevated and
volatile than they used to be. And we've
got employers and firms willing to raise
wages and prices much more than we were
used to in the period of the Great
Moderation. So this is a very very
precarious time for central banks to
lean on the idea of this being
transitory because if you have a few
months of this where clothing prices,
food prices, plastics, etc., not just
energy are all going up at the same
time. That that to me smells of second
round effects.
>> So Jordan, how much upside do you see
for the dollar versus the euro versus
everything based on that kind of trading
playbook.
>> Well, that playbook got Euro dollar down
to par back in 2022. It was extreme. It
was a very euro focused story with the
US benefiting from the LNG exports and
oil exports and picking up the slack
from Russia supply being constrained to
Europe. We're following the same path of
Euro dollar's depreciation and the
dollar's appreciation as 2022. Uh but
it's all about how long this war lasts.
So if you make the assumption it's over
by the end of this month, then sure,
Euro dollar heads back higher. We're at
116 to 118 120, who knows? But if you
make the assumption that the straight
remains closed and we get to July, we
get to September. I really don't want to
talk about it, but let's say December,
then the below 110 105 parity levels.
Each month this goes on, we're going to
have to lower our forecast for it. So
the way I see the the dollar
appreciating right now is I think we'll
get Euro dollar down to 112. We talk
about 110 if we get there July and
onwards, but it's in terms of trade
shock. the the rate hikes that have been
priced into the ECB and the Bank of
England, it's helped buffer the sort of
dollar strength that you would have
usually seen, but we've now had so much
priced in for both of those central
banks, it's hard for the interest rate
story to overwhelm the terms of trade
shock that's feeding through.
>> Jordan Rochester, go away. It's good to
see you. Thank you, sir. Jordan
Rochester of Missouo, December. Can you
imagine if this went to December? If it
goes to December, I wonder if this idea
of a pro- yuan actually comes and takes
shape. Meaning, if you have to pay a
toll in Iran, it's going to be in yuan
and China will be an ultimate
beneficiary of that.
>> Well, right now, nobody is thinking that
that's a possibility based on where the
futures curve is given the fact that
right now we're looking at $76 a barrel
in December. So, this isn't exactly a
priced in scenario. A lot of things
would have to get repriced, not just the
euro.
>> If it started going on that long, to
Amar's point, things start to change.
structural shifts.
>> Yeah. And things start to become
formalized whether you like it or not.
And that's Iran ultimately offering a
toll and if you've got a certain flag on
a certain ship, you get through and if
you don't, you don't.
>> Well, over the weekend, we heard from
one Iranian official saying, "We will
never go back to normal. We are
determined now to make sure that we get
a fee for this straight." And I think
for the United States, that's very
unnerving because this is an
international waterway. Not to mention
Oman and UAE, which are part of that as
well.
>> Futures right now positive by 0.4% 4% on
the S&P 500. Up next, a man who raised
his price target on the S&P 500. We'll
speak to Venu Krishna of Barclays in
just a moment. Plus, Henry Trees of
Vader Partners, Clayton Seagull of CSIS,
and Ed Alhusami of Colombia Thread
Needle. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner.
It's premature to talk about a Fed
easing because the oil hit takes down
growth.
>> The Fed hiking is not going to get oil
to flow more freely. They are going to
sit this up.
>> I see no indications that this is going
to go away anytime soon.
>> You still don't see the potential for
rate hikes on the horizon. The US
economy can take a few more punches than
the rest of the world.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your price action, the scores look
like this. Equity futures on the S&P
bouncing by just a few ten of 1%. were
up by 0.5 following the biggest 2-day
loss on the S&P since April of last
year, down almost 9% from the highs
earlier this year. In the bond market,
are we beginning to price in lower
growth, slower growth? Yields down by
four basis points on twos, down by four
on 10's, 439. With this in mind, crude
just holding on to these levels. Triple
digits on WTI, triple digits on Brent
crude, 115 and up by more than 2% this
morning. Yeah, it is an incredibly
difficult market to get your head around
given the fact that you potentially have
an inflationary shock. You're seeing
earnings hold in and actually increase.
In other words, in the US, the consumer
is still strong and yet we don't know
the second order effects. You're
starting to hear about them on the
margins. Right now, at least if you
listen to the likes of Goldman Sachs, JP
Morgan, TD Securities, and many others,
it is a time to buy bonds because
ultimately we have overpriced the
inflationary shock long term. question
is what gives anyone certainty of
exactly where we are at such quickly
moving news as well as markets.
>> It's another Monday morning confronting
escalation risk. Several stories over
the weekend just unnerving rattling some
investors. This from the Washington
Post. The Pentagon preparing for weeks
of ground operations in Iran. I believe
the Journal discussing a special ground
operation maybe Car Island. The
president gave a nod to that over the
weekend. This is where things get even
harder. It does get even harder because
while there were discussions over the
weekend in Islamabad with a number of
countries that want to act as mediaries
to try to bring this to a halt and the
president said maybe there'd be a deal,
the Iranians saying no. And they were
even saying they weren't really
represented uh in these discussions. And
then you have all of these reports, Wall
Street Journal talking about potentially
a special force to go in and seize the
uranium. Washington Post talking about
maybe more troops on the ground. And at
the same time, the president to the
Financial Times saying, "I want to take
the oil." which would may be going
through Car Island where nine out of 10
every Iranian barrels goes through.
>> Multiples have compressed. We've had a
decent correction on the NASDAQ 100.
Other stocks single name. Some big moves
on the likes of Microsoft and Meta
that's been building now for months.
This from Stuart Kaiser. Do you want to
buy the dip? We are not dip buyers yet.
Negotiations show no visible progress
and next escalation steps are very
worrying.
>> We have no idea of the downside risk.
Potentially the sky's is the limit when
it comes to some of these oil prices.
We've heard $200 thrown around. We're
hearing about physical shortages in
Asia. You can come up with a really
gloom and doom scenario. The knee-jerk
reaction on Wall Street to look through
geopolitical risk has not worked for the
past 5 weeks. At what point do we have a
sense that you can go back to that buy
the dip moment given the fact that we do
not see a pathway out of this?
>> Brent crude at 115 high this morning by
a little more than 2%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Vinu Krishna
of Barclays as crude climbs higher.
Clayton Seagull of CSIS as the Middle
East war widens and Ed Husseini of
Colombia thread needle as markets price
in lower growth. We begin this app with
stocks pairing losses as crude hovers
near 115. Venu Krishna of Barclay's
raising his 26 S&P target to 7650
writing we are incrementally bullish on
US equities. The macro regime has turned
messier but not hostile. Vinner joins us
now for more. Vina good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> This is a really interesting note that
you put out and thanks for making some
time for us this morning. What a moment
to raise your price target on the S&P
500. Where's that confidence coming
from?
>> You know, every year we assess our
numbers after the towards the end of the
first quarter, uh when you have the full
year the previous year behind us, the
fourth quarter earnings momentum, uh and
that was a process. So while I fully
recognize that the macro environment has
become more fragile uh but we are
approaching it from a fundamental
perspective and the news over there is
earnings momentum has actually improved
quite significantly and we ended last
year in a much better position than even
what we thought earnings growth of over
14%. And this year we're expecting that
to accelerate 15 16%. Of course, the
caveat is that the base case is that
this war which has come out of the blue
does get resolved in the next few
months. Uh if that goes out of the
window, clearly we have a downside case
where S&P we see going down to 5900.
>> Messy and not hostile. A few months
separates one versus the other. So if
we're two months into this and these
price moves continue, even then you'd be
bullish on this market. That's curious.
I'm interested by that that you wouldn't
take down your earnest expectations even
if we got another month, 6 weeks of
this.
>> Not yet. Right. At least at least we
would wait for this quarter's guidance
to come through. Let's see what
companies are saying. Everything we're
seeing on the ground is that the
momentum is significantly to the right
rather than the left. But I do recognize
like I said that the left tail risk has
become much fatter mainly because of
this one event risk. But while we can
brush aside that you know that the
market is looking past geopolitical risk
and we have pointed that out the reality
is in the last decade every geopolitical
risk event has been resolved in a
reasonably decent time frame and it has
been contained. Now the risk right now
is that it is not contained in the
Middle East. It's gone to Saudi Arabia,
UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain, Omen, Oman. So I
think that risk is is is real right now.
Uh but again the core belief is that
we've already in the early stages of
negotiations right obviously the two
sides are wide apart and the single
biggest threat to the global markets
right now is a control of the state of
hormones right and we have to figure out
how that gets resolved. There has to be
a give and take on both sides. One side
is extremely weak has it back against
the wall but they have a trump card in
the state of hormones.
>> There are a lot of people who would
agree with you including Mike Wilson
over at Morgan Stanley. There is though
a shift in the dynamic when it comes to
inflation and the rate backdrop. When
you talk about the oil price shock if
you do have companies that are
continuing to raise their earnings
expectations on the heels of a strong
consumer, don't multiples get compressed
just by virtue of the fact that rates
have to be a whole lot higher.
>> Multiples have already compressed quite
significantly. I mean I give you the
example. S&P is trading below 20 right
now. Right? If you look at big tech, we
were trading at 31 times last year,
beginning of last year, ended last year
at 28. Now we at 23 and change. Uh same
thing with the rest of technology
sector. So multiples have already
adjusted primarily to factor in what
you're saying about the uncertainty of
what how this plays out. It's the
earnings which have not and they will
react in all fairness if things go
really bad. But we are not there yet.
We're not seeing that yet. I guess
another way to ask the same thing is are
we under uh are we underpricing the risk
of true inflation that has a prolonged
uh presence in the system if the economy
is that much more resilient than people
currently are expecting
>> you know inflation risk is already being
priced by the rates market that's why
you're seeing the yield curve flatten
quite significantly the front end is up
you know so I think we take a step back
and say what if to your point if oil
stays let's say 100 or above for an
extended period of time and then it's a
mixed in a sense that there are certain
sectors they actually benefit clearly
energy uh materials uh partly
industrials are able to pass on price
but the single biggest negatively
impacted area is the consumer fs
segments staples and discretionary so I
think it all boils down to how bad the
situation gets how long it persists and
uh that will tell you what the
implication on inflation is not just
inflation we are not factoring the
impact of growth as yet so in the worst
case it's not just inflation it's growth
it means your curve can actually get
inverted and and we are we are looking
at the 5900 situation. So what I would
say the tail has become fatter. The
probability has increased but still if
you look at our base and upside case uh
that is still our dominant view that
this will get resolved.
>> Your bare case what would oil have to be
to get there?
>> We are factoring in roughly $100 of oil
and that seems
>> you think it's not going to be $100 in
the next few months. There's a lot of
>> it's already there. It's already there.
My view is that this is not going to be
sustained. If you look at the forward
oil curve, that's telling you that this
is not sustained. If I look at our own
oil uh uh analyst, they also expect
things to be lower uh down the line,
right? We're talking about 6 to9 months.
So, I think they're in rise of risk in
the sense that uh the market and the
analysts, experts in the area are
factoring in some sort of a resolution.
But listen, all bets are off. If you're
talking about 150 or higher oil price
for a sustained period of time, that is
the single biggest unknown. And
unfortunately, I would say nobody,
absolutely nobody has a clue as how this
plays out. This is the Middle East.
That's that story dealt with. Let's look
through that. You're looking through
that. There's more to this market than
just the Middle East right now. And a
lot of the problems in this market
predate the sound of this war,
particularly in tech. Microsoft has lost
30% of its value since the highs of late
last year. The NASDAQ's down by 10%.
Meta last week got hammered down 11%.
That had absolutely nothing to do with
what's happening in the Middle East. Can
I get your reflections on that? What's
the driving force behind big tech and
where does the leadership come from?
>> Sure. So I think big tech is one of the
most interesting conundrums right now in
the sense that on the earnings front
it's extremely robust even in fourth
quarter by the way over 28%. So and the
rest of tech outside that over 22%. So
that is tremendous uh number. What's
happening is the market is clearly
focusing on the scale of capital
spending. If I looked at our own numbers
on what we thought the hyperschool is
going to spend uh in December we
expected them to spend 550 billion in
26. Now we're seeing about 715 billion.
Right? So we're talking about 30 40%
increase in capital spending. The
biggest uncertainty now is how long are
they going to keep spending? Our
internet analysts believe that the peak
is going to be in 28 and significantly
higher than where the market is. Right?
And I think that is where the problem
is. The free cash flow yield has come
down. The tech companies are insisting
it's a investment in a transformative
technology which is going to change the
world. the market is a little wary as to
how long this is going to happen and is
it going to be a permanently capital
inensive business and that's why as the
free cash flow yield has come down the
multiples are adjusting from 31 to 28 to
23 right now and I and that's the reason
why we actually like that area to the
extent that the rate of earnings growth
is significantly faster than the rate at
which the multiple is compressing you
will have solid returns you saw that
last year they as a group big Tech
returned 23%. S&P returned 18%.
>> Does it make sense to you that you
potentially have a sell off in these
names for investing too much and a sell
off in names that are all going to get
disrupted by all the cool things that
they create with all of this money?
>> That is the inconsistency, right? How
can you have both at the same time? On
one hand, you're saying this is the
biggest technology and this is most
transformative and the whole world is
going to benefit. But they been
penalizing them. I think it's the
disruption risk. Nobody knows who within
software is going to survive, whether
it's SAS, whether it's security, uh
which models in AI are going to happen.
You can certainly expect some massive
capital misallocation as well, but
they're going to be huge winners and
losers. I think it's not clear right now
who they are and we will stay in this
limbo. But I like the setup where if
your core earnings are still strong and
your multiple is coming down, you're
effectively now at a PEG ratio which is
less than one. I love it. The key call
here though is you think the capex ramp
up continues even as the market pushes
back. Yes, that's quite a big call.
>> The capex will continue because one the
we are in still in the sort of early to
mid-stages of this technologies
development. Two these companies have
very robust uh profitability. By the way
in fourth quarter their overall
profitability increased by 150 basis
points on 28% plus growth. They are
borrowing money from the credit markets.
It's minuscule compared to the overall
capital structure. It is multiple times
overs subscribed and trading
significantly tighter within where the
IG index is even now. So I think the
capital is there. Uh they'll continue to
spend because they're scared to be left
behind. Uh and therein lies some of the
risk of capital misallocation between
them. But you know we have no doubt that
uh this is the future u and and you'll
see some big uh you know IPOs also this
year and we'll see where the dust
settles um you know we like the setup
>> the chipmakers hope you're right let's
put it that way it's good to see you
thank you sir Vinn Krishna there of
Barclays with a new call on this equity
market getting more bullish as the weeks
go by
>> I feel like we should have a new slogan
for 2026 nobody knows nothing because
ultimately we don't understand the
parameters and so everyone's trying to
figure out what puzzle they can solve
and then say well All bets are off if
we're wrong on the parameters.
>> I said last week when the note came out,
by the way, I appreciate the boldness. I
love it.
>> I really do. You know, when people are
just sat there paralyzed and don't know
what to say, I appreciate the
conviction.
>> It's good scenario analysis, fat tales,
sure, but scenario analysis nonetheless
that shows the strong position of a lot
of companies.
>> 7650 almost consensus just several
months ago and now very very bullish.
>> Yeah. I mean earlier we were considered
to be on the low end, right? And all we
did was by the way this was in the
works. I didn't raise it that particular
day. Yeah,
>> we had the numbers a week before when we
went to 321. We were $45 ahead of
consensus. The first time in 5 years I
was ever ahead of consensus. Now
consensus ahead of me
it's 323 from 307. So that trajectory is
crazy. And by the way, I think
interesting thing to note I forgot to
mention is that for the first time in a
long long time by this time typically
consensus goes down 150 basis points.
Now we're up 400 basis points. That's
the 550 basis point delta, right? How do
you explain that?
>> Ver, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Appreciate it, buddy. Stocks
up by 0.5% on the S&P with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yhira has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump says
he's ready to make a deal with Iran.
Speaking to reporters on Air Force One,
the president saying Iran is giving the
US most of the demands from its 15-point
peace plan. Iran still disputing Trump's
claims about negotiations.
An Iranian missile strike on a on a base
in Saudi Arabia damaging several
military jets and destroyed a valuable
E3 jet. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the $300 million plane was hit
in an attack on Prince Sultan air base
in recent days. And the Spanish
government announcing it's closing the
country's airspace and bases to US
planes carrying out missions in Iran.
Spanish newspaper El Pais reporting that
the country is only allowing the transit
or landing of planes in cases of
emergency. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on our program,
navigating negotiations.
>> They're being hit so hard anybody would
be negotiating. They are negotiating.
They're begging to make a deal. They
have to open it up. They have to open up
the straight
of Trump. I mean, harmless. Up next,
we'll catch up with Henred Trees of
Vader Partners live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
The worst week on the S&P 500 since
October on the NASDAQ 100. The worst
week since April of last year. That's
just last week. This is the bounce this
morning. Up by 0.5% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by.5% also in the bond market.
Yields down across the curve. We're down
by about five basis points on the
10-year this morning. 438 with crude
still higher just short of 115 right now
on Brent crude. Yeah, people looking at
this as potentially a growth shock if it
go go goes on for a long period of time.
We've heard from a number of different
executives including the airlines that
should this continue, they're going to
increase prices and they're expecting
some kind of consumer demand push back.
That said, we don't have a sense of
that. So, it's basically people throwing
darts at a dart board to understand what
the parameters of this conflict are.
>> Another Monday morning of doing just
that with Brent Crude at 11460
and Savannah this morning navigating
negotiations.
They're being hit so hard. Anybody would
be negotiating. They are negotiating.
They're begging to make a deal. They
have to open it up. They have to open up
the straight
of Trump. I mean, Carmouth. When this
war ends, it's going to be like a rocket
ship. I thought oil prices were going to
go up higher than they are now. I
thought that we would see a bigger drop
in stock. Hasn't been that bad.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
war in the Middle East at its fifth week
with no end in sight. Amarie, this is
the escalation over the weekend.
Iranbacked Houthi militants entering the
conflict. At the same time, more US
troops arrive in the region.
>> A lot of individuals in the energy
world, they were saying that this would
be a serious escalation and a serious
risk for oil prices. How much higher
could they go if you then introduce
another choke point that basically gets
cut off? And that's the Red Sea. That's
the BL Mund straight. We saw that in
2023. Do you remember all those ships
started to avoid the Red Sea because of
the Houthies? We could be in a place
like that once again. And we should
remind everyone even though US Maritime
and you had the UK Navy was there, the
British Navy was there as well, it took
minimum 6 months for a lot of these
ships to agree to even touch the Red Sea
once again and go back through there. So
this potentially could be a massive
risk, not just when it comes to maritime
safety, but also energy prices. In some
ways, it's surprising that crude's not
higher than it is this morning. The
paper market once again speaking to the
disconnect that so many people are
talking about between physical and
what's happening in financial markets.
>> We don't really have a sense of exactly
how much physical damage has been done
and how long it's going to take to
restart some of the production
facilities. Also unclear exactly how
much of a band-aid some of the SPR
releases as well as the Iranian and
Russian crude that's been unsanctioned
has uh really been to cap some of those
prices.
>> This is the take from Henry of Vader
Partners. She writes the following.
There remains no end in sight to the war
and ceasefire negotiations are leagues
away from reaching an agreement.
Henrietta joins us now for more.
Henrietta, welcome to the program. How
much support is there for this operation
on Capitol Hill?
Now,
>> I think that's the perfect question when
you're trying to put parameters around
the realm of the possible here.
Lawmakers are gone. They went on recess.
They'll be gone until midappril. And at
that point they still have to deal with
a whole host of other issues from the
wars nomination to reopening DHS which
is on day you know 45 or whatever of a
government shutdown. The disconnect that
I see most prominently is that the
market is focused on the war so intently
on oil and gas prices on the impact to
inflation and lawmakers are gone. So
when you talk to members, it's plain
that the president has absolutely no
push back politically from his
conference or no meaningful push back
that's organized from the Democratic
conference to force a political end. And
I'm just trying to sus out from staff
and members where their pain points are.
And it's really $5 gasoline. It's not $4
anymore. So we're at $3.99, I think,
right now. Y it's not the $4 point
that's the inflection metric. It's five
bucks post the Arab Spring and post
pandemic and really they have the ma the
latitude that they need to perpetuate
this war into June based on my
conversations.
>> Henry, it is shocking but not surprising
that lawmakers decided to go on their
break. Meanwhile, they've caused havoc
in terms of TSA agents not getting paid.
And on top of that, we are in the middle
of a war and there's a $200 billion
request from the administration for
Congress to take up. Where does that
stand?
I think those are really strong
indicators that we are going to
perpetuate this war first and foremost.
You know, never mind the fact that
thousands of Marines have now landed and
are in the region ready to be deployed
at the president's direction. Uh but the
president and secretary of defense have
requested $200 billion. Over the last
maybe five or six days, you've seen the
budget committee chairman spring into
action. Lindsey Graham on the Senate
side and Jody Arrington on the House
side saying, "We're going to get you
reconciliation." On April 3rd, the White
House will lay out its budget request.
That will kickstart the process and then
Republicans will be off to the races to
give the president whatever he needs on
both the military side, but also on
domestic discretionary spending,
consumer fiscal spend, stimulus to get
the American public through the war for
as long as it will take. So in my
opinion stimul we don't pass
reconciliation bills that are less than
700 billion.
>> Well what kind of fiscal stimulus could
you what kind of fiscal stimulus is
Congress able to do?
>> There's a couple different things that
they could do. The first would be
suspend the federal gas tax. That's
going to be an 18.4% redu or cent
reduction in the gasoline price. 24.4 on
the diesel side. Those are immediate
term actions that Congress could do via
the tax code that would work under
reconciliation. And the rest is going to
be on the spend side from $200 billion
to defense money for Venezuela, um money
for PEL grants for farmers. There's
going to need to be another $15 billion
bailout. Um and then they could see if
they want to extend or expand any of the
one big beautiful bail tax cuts. Those
benefits that they passed in July of
last year have been wiped out per the
Bloomberg analysis. after $83 a barrel,
you've wiped out the whole uh stimulus
from the one big beautiful bill. So,
we're well past that.
>> Henrietta, always good to catch up and
great to hear from you. Henred a trace
there of Vader Partners. There is a
dangerous military conflict undergoing
in the Middle East right now. The
president at the moment is conducting a
lot of this. The support though has come
from a senator in South Carolina.
The airports are a mess in this country
and the senator from South Carolina has
been seen at Disney World.
>> Yes, that's what TMZ and they have
photos of him saying basically had a
great convo with Mickey Mouse and he was
at one of these character breakfast. I
guess he's on vacation in Disney World
and there is going to be a tremendous
amount of push back on all of them for
leaving town at this time right now.
Again, it is shocking but is not
surprising.
>> The optics of that are just absolutely
horrendous, aren't they? The optics of
people leaving Washington DC to go on
vacation while TSA agents are not being
paid and people are waiting on three
fourhour lines to go on their vacations
doesn't scream of competency on any
level. What we were just hearing from
Henry at a tra there the only thing that
they can pass is a reconciliation bill
with more money to be spent to try to
pay off people to make them feel a
little bit better for some of the
circumstances that have transpired. It
is incredibly difficult to see how
popularity of this Congress could get
any worse. I know. We talked about this
just last week. I wish they'd stopped
seeing this as Democrats versus
Republicans. This is not about Democrats
versus Republicans. This is about
Congress doing their job to help this
country function.
>> And to build on that, how much does this
hurt both parties significantly and make
both parties more radical, frankly,
because everyone on either side is going
to say, "I want someone to go in there
and rip the band-aid off and make a
change." And usually that comes with
more radical policies, which is
pressuring both sides to the polls.
Sometimes it's nice just to talk about
markets, isn't it?
>> I completely agree.
>> Equity futures positive by 0.6%. Up next
on the program, we'll catch up with
Clayton Seagull of CSIS as Brent Crude
heads for a record month of gains. From
New York City, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
A statement from the president just
moments ago. Allow me to read through
it. It dropped just minutes ago. The
United States of America is in serious
discussions with a new and more
reasonable regime to end our military
operations in Iran. The president going
on to say, "Great progress has been
made. But if for any reason a deal is
not shortly reached, which it probably
will be, and for any reason it won't be,
if the Hormone Straight is not
immediately open for business, we will
conclude our lovely stay in Iran by
blowing up and completely obliterating
all of their electric generating plants,
oil wells, and Car Island and in
brackets possibly all desalination
plants, which we have personally not yet
touched. This will be in the retribution
for our many soldiers and others that
Iran has butchered and killed over the
old regime's 40-year reign of terror.
That from the president just moments
ago.
>> He's clearly negotiating at the moment,
negotiating out loud. He's talking about
maybe, like he said yesterday to
reporters on Air Force One, maybe there
is going to be a potential deal. He also
was talking about the fact that he is
dealing with a quote more reasonable
regime. I think it's important to
remember the regime hasn't changed. it
is still intact. It was just new
individuals that are now rising to the
top. Does the president think he can
really deal with the foreign minister
who his team dealt with on the last
goound and the speaker of the parliament
uh Muhammad Galibbah who he mentioned as
well in the financial times. I think
that remains to be seen because right
now Iran says they are not open to this
negotiation.
>> If you're in this market, what do you do
with that statement? Equity futures
briefly at a new session highs up by
7/10en of 1% on the S&P. Does that move
this story forward at all?
>> If you believe that there truly are
negotiations and a deal will probably be
reached, maybe you could see this as
bullish. If you feel like this is
potentially leverage increasing at a
time where it's unclear exactly what the
nodes of leverage actually are, it re
leads to even greater escalation risk if
you start track uh attacking some of the
key infrastructure for civilians. So,
you could take it either way. question
that I have is why is this market really
trading on the idea that the deal will
probably be reached according to the
latest post from uh President Trump.
>> So let's roll through the boards. Let's
start with equities. We'll start with
equity futures. We'll turn to bonds and
finish on crude. Equity futures near
session highs up by 6/10 of 1% off the
back of this on the Russell up by.7. Yet
what's near session lows down by about
six basis points on a 10-year 437. And
in the commodity market crude higher by
a little more than 2% holding on to
those levels at 115. So crude has barely
moved off the back of this statement
from the president just moments ago.
>> Crude is looking at the physical market.
They're looking at the actual
destruction and they're looking at a
very different calculus than some of the
other markets. It seems like the taco
trade is still what everybody wants to
lean on. People want to essentially go
back and buy the dip. Just really I'm
not sure where this leaves us given the
fact that this does also if you take a
minute's word increase the risk of
escalation. At the same time to this
point the oil market potentially is this
is the boy that cried wolf. How many
times have we heard this president say,
"If you don't open up the trade of
Hormuz, I will do this." And then he
kicks the can down the road and we have
a new deadline and new threats. Earlier
this morning, before the president's
truth social, Iran's foreign ministry
had this to say. They said, "The US
demands for the end of the war are quote
excessive and illogical." They also went
on to say, "We had never had any direct
negotiation with the United States,
which has been raised or messages
received through intermediaries,
indicating the US's desire to negotiate.
It does not sound like the Iranians want
to participate at this moment with
having that engagement with the United
States to potentially have an offramp
from this war.
>> Equities up by 0.6%. Let's get you some
single names. Some morning movers. Danny
has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Starting with the aluminum
companies this morning after seeing some
attacks on alum aluminum production
facilities in the Middle East by Iran.
Both Alcoa and Century Aluminum have
actually been down since the start of
the war. But with new threats of supply
constraints as the price of aluminum
itself moves higher, these stocks are up
by more than 9% this morning. Elsewhere,
a little bit of sellside action. Jeffre
upgrading both Expedia and Instacart
saying that the internet names that have
sold off with the AI fears have been
overdone. Specifically pointing out
companies like Expedia saying they're
going to benefit from AI. They're adop
adopting more tools. It's a buy at this
moment considering how much it sold off.
Those shares up 2.3%. Finally, a little
bit of deal news. Uh Cisco, one of the
largest distributors of food goods to
restaurants, hospitals, various
businesses, is buying in a $29 billion
deal, Restaurant Depot. They're a cash
and carry business for distributing
foods and and and supplies to
restaurants. Cisco, it's the acqu it's
the acquirer. You tend to see them fall
because of digestion of such a big deal.
Those shares off 4.7% in the pre-market,
John.
>> Hey Danny, thanks for the update. More
from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, President Donald
Trump considering a highstakes military
operation to seize nearly 1,000 pounds
of uranium from Iran. The Wall Street
Journal reporting the plan would involve
putting US troops inside the country.
Elsewhere, the Senate Banking Committee
is planning to hold a confirmation
hearing for Federal Reserve Chair
nominee Kevin Walsh. Punch Bowl
reporting it could take place the week
of April 13th. And finally, TSA agents
set to receive paychecks today following
President Trump's emergency order.
agents working without pay since DHS
funding lapsed in February. Airports
still urging travelers to arrive hours
early to get through security lines. And
that is your radar this morning. This is
our top story from the president just
moments ago. The US of A is in serious
discussions with a new and more
reasonable regime to end our military
operations in Iran. The president saying
we're making so-called great progress,
but if we don't make progress, if we
can't make a deal to open the
stratifformers, in this statement from
the president this morning is a long
list of threats.
>> Yep. A long list of threats of what they
plan to potentially go after.
Desalination plans, some energy
facilities across the country. Another
threat from the president to want
Iranians to open up the straight of
Hormuse, even if the Iranians were
willing to open up the straight of
Hormuse today. And remember, it
technically is open. It is just
controlled. A new precedent has been
set. The Iranians have basically said it
is never going back to normal and we
will continue now to collect fees. There
is now a thyron toll. In order to pass
go, in order to get your cargo through,
you are going to have to pay this regime
a lot of money. And that seems to be the
direction of travel when it comes to
what is going on in what is an
international body of water.
>> This is the escalation threat that's
lingered over this market now for more
than a week. This is the threat that
they will go even further, obliterate
their electricity generating plants,
electric generating plants, oil wells in
K Island, and possibly desalination
plants. Now, that would be hugely
controversial because that would hit
civilians and you'd have to worry about
retaliation across the region as well,
which I imagine makes Gulf Partners very
nervous at the same time.
>> We could already feel that. They've
already communicated that desalination
plants. This could turn into a war over
water, which is more severe than a war
over oil. And that is clearly what a lot
of people are concerned about. When you
take a step back, you look at whether
President Trump can solve this quickly,
right? I mean, I'm just going back to
the way that the market is sort of
breathing a sigh of relief on this.
Given the fact that maybe this brings
some sort of finish to this, it's hard
for the physical market to see that sort
of progress given the fact that this is
a very different set of circumstances.
And it's hard to know who you're dealing
with. I mean, can you deescalate by
escalating given some of the parties
involved? Joining us now to discuss is
Clayton Seagull of CSIS. Clayton,
welcome to the program. I'm sure you've
heard the statement from the president
out just moments ago. What's your
reaction to it? How were we meant to
read into that particular statement from
the president?
>> Hey, good morning, Jonathan. I would say
today's messaging is rather escalatory
and uh I think as you pointed out,
there's really two big concerns here.
Number one, we're supposed to be coming
ostensibly to the rescue of the Iranian
people and trying to uh loosen the
shackles of this oppressive regime. So
by destroying Har Island, by destroying
desalination facilities and other
critical infrastructure, this would
really be doing the people of Iran a
terrible disservice once this regime is
uh gone and out of the way. And the
second thing, as you pointed out, is the
risk of uh much more severe retaliation
than we've seen so far against the uh
the Gulf countries that neighbor Iran
and even against other uh critical
infrastructure and supplies. Um, I guess
I'm not surprised to see the president
looking for ways to lever up against
Iran because this new control over the
uh straight of Hormuz and the M East
Gulf generally is, as you guys have said
this morning, kind of the new normal and
it doesn't look like Iran is liable to
seed that new leverage anytime soon.
It's going to stick with it. It's going
to leverage it in negotiations with all
kinds of counterparties. And so no
surprise that in Washington they're
looking for ways to maybe level the
playing field and and get an edge if
there are going to be meaningful
negotiations.
>> Clayton, to that point, this is the
signal that a lot of people are taking
that Washington is looking for a way in
to a true negotiation that can bring a
sooner end to this. Do you see any way
for the United States to get an angle to
expedite some of those negotiations?
I think that the path to negotiations is
open. It's either they're already taking
place as the president has asserted
several times recently or I think that
door probably is open even with the
people that are running the regime in
Iran who are in by all indications more
hardline than the previous group that
was in control before the wave of
assassinations. With that said, yeah,
the door is always open to some kind of
negotiations, but the question in any
market uh is whether the two sides can
come together. You know, what's really
the gap between uh between the two? It
looks kind of unbridgegable right now,
but you never know until the sides get
to real talking. So, I think that the
diplomatic process is where this is
eventually going to go. And what markets
are trying to price is how much carnage
to supply chains and how much of a
cascading effect through the
macroeconomy is likely before we get
there.
>> Do you think that the market is still
underpricing just how high oil prices
are going to remain? Not necessarily now
but in 6 months, 9 months and 12 months
time.
>> I do. I believe that the the paper
markets uh futures etc. are uh a little
bit sanguin I would say to use the fancy
terms. It looks like they are still
expecting a relatively uh uh soon
resolution, early resolution to the
crisis that would resolve this big
supply disruption, but we're going to be
contending with a supply disruption even
if everything ends today. And so
depending on the math you use for how
much Saudi Arabia and United Arab
Emirates have been able to bypass the
strait and get some oil out through the
Gulf area and maybe how much uh is is
coming just in a trickle from Iran,
you're still looking at a disruption
that's been somewhere around on the low
end 10 million barrels per day for the
past month, three or four weeks. So 200
300 million barrels is going to be
missing from global supply demand
balances going forward. It's going to
hit first of all in those markets in
Asia and then it's likely to proliferate
uh throughout buying regions in the
world. That's got to eventually be
reflected in higher prices which as
y'all have pointed out this morning have
already been manifest in the physical
market. What people are really paying uh
for and selling for wet barrels of oil.
It just hasn't translated into the
futures market because a lot of traders,
maybe non-commercials, are expecting an
early resolution.
>> Clayton, how much of a direct threat are
Saudi Arabian barrels in the Red Sea
right now?
>> Well, they're under greater threat this
morning than they were uh this time last
week because the the Houthi militia in
Yemen has joined the war. It started in
a relatively uh modest way by firing I
think a couple three missiles uh in the
direction of Israel which were
intercepted. But the big threat here to
oil markets and to the macroeconomy
generally is that the the west coast of
Saudi Arabia along the Red Sea where
some oil exports have been able to be
diverted and still get to market. that
could even be in jeopardy if the
Houthies get back to their old tricks,
which was disrupting commercial shipping
in a big way in the Red Sea after
November of 2023. So that's the big risk
there is that that last kind of escape
hatch for at least a limit amount of oil
going to world markets could be in
jeopardy.
>> What kind of impact on prices would that
mean if we both have both these two
choke points basically closed?
Well, you would lose another, let's say,
uh, fourish million barrels per day
that's been able to make it to market up
until now. And then you'd get the Gulf
exports really back to, um, almost the
full disruption of say 15 million
barrels a day of crude, another fiveish
of refined products. Prices have to move
higher in that case. And I feel like uh,
a lot of folks are are maybe downplaying
the uh, extent to which prices would
have to increase in order to to balance
the market. If you just had to take like
eight million barrels a day of demand
off, then you're looking at basically
like uh COVID era 2020 type reductions
in in use of fuel and and other uh and
other oil derivatives. And so you're
really looking at kind of a a massive
slowdown in economic output.
>> That is the market's last mechanism to
balance when you get to those high
prices.
>> Hey Clayton, it's good to hear from you.
Thanks for making time for us. Clayton
Seagull there of CSIS. We've said it
repeatedly over the last week. Two-way
risk. This can go one way or the other.
And they are in very different
directions if we go in either. The
United States of America is in serious
discussions with a new and more
reasonable regime. Great progress has
been made. Then there's a major but if
for any reason a deal is not shortly
reached, we will obliterate all of their
electric generating plants, oil wells,
and Car Island and possibly desalination
plants. The reason why this is
concerning to the likes of Clayton is
that in the past Iran's response to this
is you strike us, we strike other
regional uh countries that much harder
and we will attack their civilian
infrastructure. That is the red line for
Saudi Arabia and UAE and the reason why
this could escalate into something much
larger.
>> And those countries have already seen
this when it comes to energy facilities,
when it comes to civilian
infrastructure. Look at what's going on
in some of these aluminum smelters which
immediately moved the market prices. But
the president this morning is at least
verbally escalating in attempt to
deescalate. Come to the table or this
will happen. I think the market is just
trying to really digest how serious he
is in this moment or potentially would
he give the Iranians a little bit more
time down the road.
>> Brent crude 115 WCI101. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Yhira has
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. And as you all were discussing,
President Trump with a new statement on
the status of talks with Iran, writing
that the US has seen great progress in
discussions with a new, more reasonable
regime, but threatening to destroy
Iran's key energy sites if a deal is not
shortly reached to reopen the Straits of
Hormuz.
China's Xiaomi delivering more than
4,000 of its new SU7 electric sedans in
its first week of sales. The company's
CEO setting a goal of delivering 550,000
cars this year, a 34% increase from last
year. And Apollo is looking south for a
possible second US headquarters.
According to the Financial Times, the
asset manager is considering a new
location in several cities including
Austin, Nashville, or in South Florida.
Dutch Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhira, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Up next on the program, Fed policy on
pause. Everyone realizes that a policy
response doesn't help get ships faster
through the straight. A policy response
doesn't help really offset demand
destruction. The Fed hiking is not going
to get oil to flow more freely. They are
going to sit this out.
>> Up next on the show, Ed Ahuseni of
Columbia Thread Needle from New York
City this morning. Good morning. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
A new statement from the president out a
little bit earlier on this morning. It
reads as follows. The United States of
America in serious discussions with a
new more reasonable regime. He calls it
great progress in the talks so far. But
if we don't reach a deal, this is the
threat to obliterate all of their
electric generating plants, oil wells
and Car Island and possibly also
desalination plants. That would be real
escalation that would lead to
retaliation from Iran, attacks on other
civilian infrastructure. Uh there is a
real question here. Does this indicate
that they are closer to talks or does
this indicate there is another deadline
coming up that we need to pay attention
to?
>> It's a new era for financial markets.
These statements just don't move the
dial at all. Yet an initial spike in
equities and since then we're where we
were up by about 610 of 1% on the S&P.
Similar story in the bond market. Yield
still lower by five basis points on 10s
and in the commodity market still around
115 there was a time maybe a week ago
when that kind of statement made a big
difference at least for a few hours not
even a few minutes anymore.
>> It initially was treated as signal now
it's treated as noise because ultimately
you've got both sides trying to jawbone
the market into moving in a certain
direction and people are watching other
things right now like the physical
market like other uh potential nodes of
progress. So where does it leave the
Federal Reserve and Sylvanas this
morning? Fed policy on pause.
>> Everyone realizes that a policy response
doesn't help get ships faster through
the straight. A policy response doesn't
help really offset demand destruction.
If oil goes to $150 a barrel, right?
There is an element of demand
destruction and and the policy response
doesn't help with that. So I don't think
the market is counting on that. The Fed
hiking is not going to get oil to flow
more freely. They are going to sit this
up.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Fed
chair J Pal speaking at 10:30 Eastern
time. Traders looking for insight as
higher crude prices increase the odds of
an economic slowdown. Ed Aluseni of
Columbia Thread Needle writing, "It's in
the Fed's interest to keep markets on
edge. Doubt is their most powerful tool
to keep inflation in check." Ed joins us
now for more. Ed, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is that how you describe this then? The
first phase is a big communication push.
>> I think that's right. You want to create
the permission structure for markets to
price tight monetary policy upfront.
Then as we see inflation, as we see
growth develop later this year, I think
it opens up room for cuts. But the
initial stage, you want to make sure
that the markets feel that the Fed's
responding with sort of a whatever it
takes posture.
>> How do you price that sequencing through
this yield curve?
>> I think we've done a good amount of
work. We've taken out about two and a
half cuts. We've taken that pricing to
roughly neutral, maybe half a half a
hike in the price. We flattened the
curve. Right? If anything in the
extreme, if this conflict continues, we
could invert the curve and that would be
very consistent with the Fed tightening
policy in the background to make sure
there are no second round effects from
this.
>> So then how do you understand the back
end of the yield curve, the 10-year, the
30-year, and the fact that yields have
moved higher? Is this a lack of
credibility uh that the market has that
they truly can contain inflation?
>> I think the answer is twofold. One, not
yet. Most of the repricing has been real
rates. So, it's been a tightening of
policy. It's been a tightening of
posture. The initial reaction to me is a
couple of things. One, there's some
technicals behind this. The market was
positioned for cuts. It was pos
positioned for a steeper curve at the
end of February. We've unwound all of
that.
We haven't had time to price in the hit
to growth in the labor market yet. I
think it's starting to get a look now as
we get, you know, 30-year yields to 5%,
10 year yields to 4 and a.5%. Those
things start to become more durable
ceilings. But I think the key question
for an investor today is which part of
the curve is overshot? Is it the longer
end of the curve or the front end? And I
think I put a lot more chips on that
longer end of the curve.
>> So you believe it's going to be a
greater growth shock than people
previously expected. I'm just wondering
how the fiscal lever plays into this
given the fact that the previous uh
declines in growth have been met with
huge fiscal responses and we see a
similar type of impulse coming right now
at least in the rhetoric from Congress.
>> Absolutely. So that that's a little bit
of a wild card right now. The fiscal
posture right now in the background is
roughly neutral. Not not a lot going on.
It's a little bit more accommodative in
China, in Japan, in Germany.
To the extent that there is room to
really ramp up fiscal stimulus the way
we did after CO, I think that room is a
lot tighter. I think Congress has
learned the fact that look look, you
really need a different rate
environment. You really need a different
growth environment to drop stimulus into
the economy without facing significant
consequences. So I'm I'm seeing a little
bit of adjustment on the margin,
gasoline taxes and the like, but large
fiscal stimulus so far is not part of
the picture. But that's a massive risk
for bond investors.
>> Is there a bond market you're worried
about? I looked at Japan, highest yields
across some teners since the late 1990s,
the UK since 2008,
Germany since 2011. Is there a market
you're more concerned about versus
others? I think some of the volatility
you see in UK rates for sure is
symptomatic of the fact that look
there's very little capacity for that
market to absorb additional supply.
That's one. Two, a lot of the
participants of that market are
leveraged hedge funds. They move their
positions around very quickly. You see
that in the rate volatility. But if I
zoom out, um I would be most worried
about emerging markets, particularly
local currency emerging markets. um this
has put significant pressure on them
both directly through the inflation oil
shock and indirectly through a stronger
dollar. So to the extent that emerging
markets were a real sweet spot last year
uh a really nice runway for cuts that's
gone and a lot of them will have to
tighten policy pretty significantly. So
from a growth perspective that feats
back in in a nasty way
>> that is just brutal. They don't get just
hit once, they get hit twice, maybe
three times. And how many people were
positioned for emerging markets to
outperform heading into this year? They
thought that they would benefit from the
tailwind of global growth continuing to
expand and potentially at a faster pace.
The rest of the world outperforming the
US. How much things have been completely
turned on their heads in just one month.
>> Forgive me for shortening this down to
about 30 seconds. That's all I've got.
Do you think there's an
underappreciation still this morning
about energy rationing in EM and the hit
to growth we're about to see?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. We're
starting to see that in in Asia,
particularly in in East and South Asia.
that's starting to play through in the
physical markets. Um, it's the place
where manufacturing is concentrated and
so most sensitive to to the inflation
and and energy shock story.
>> Ed, thanks for making time for us.
Appreciate it. Lots to think about. Ed
Ahusani there of Colombia thread needle
on emerging markets and the pain that
they're in right now. The hit through
energy, the hit through foreign
exchange, and the hit through rates.
>> Yeah, and the hit through having to wait
online to get oil uh because you are
seeing a physical shortage in a lot of
these countries. Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with Judy Bill of Kane
Anderson Rubnik, Neil Meta of Goldman
Sachs, Nancy Lazar of Piper Sandler, Ed
Yardi of Yadeni Research, the third of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
The level of uncertainty is extremely
high.
>> Things seem to be in a free fall. You
don't want to catch a falling knife.
Equity markets and markets generally are
resilient.
>> We still see a compelling stock or
equity story ahead.
>> It's just so difficult to determine
what's going to happen next in this
market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action. Your scores look
like this. Holding on to gains up by
0.6% on the S&P 500. Up by.5 on the
NASDAQ following the biggest weekly
decline of the year so far. In the bond
market, yields starting to run here.
Bonds starting to rally. We're down by
four basis points on twos. We saw this
in Friday's session at the back end of
the session into the weekend. This is
the follow through. We're down five
basis points on 10s to 437 and crude
holding on to gains also. WTI and Bren
crude. Bren at around 115 up by 2% with
some encouragement from the president
and also a rather large threat. The
president saying talks are going well.
Progress is being made. But if we don't
make a deal, there's a big stick at the
other end.
>> So, how do people trade this? And
ultimately, they don't. Initially, there
was a pop in equities. No real move in
uh oil. Right now, people looking at
what are the off-ramps, right? How do
you have a taco type trader? Trump
always checks out, which is not the
right way to phrase this at all. But how
do you have an off-ramp at a time where
it seems to be only escalations that
could potentially get you to that
deescalating point?
>> What's changed in the last week? For the
better. The answer to that is not a lot.
In the last week or so, two-way risk has
persisted. This can go one way or the
other, conclude, or it escalates. But in
the meantime, as it persists, the
problems just accumulate. And this was
the story on Friday for so many people.
The longer this goes on, the problems
persist, things start to accumulate. It
gets harder and harder to rebound from.
And that's what I wonder is starting to
switch click into the bond market.
Yields down on Friday, down again this
morning. The focus shifting from
inflation to growth. We'll see if this
holds. It's only a few days, but it
feels like the story is starting to
adapt, change into a new phase. Yeah,
there is the sort of belief that the
longer this goes on, as you say, the
worse it's going to get. I find it
interesting that initially we were
talking about if it goes on for more
than a month, it could be a problem.
Now, if it goes on for a couple months,
it could be tolerable, but if it goes on
through December, well, you know, God
help us all. And there's this question
of at what point do you get that trigger
of full capitulation or have we already
seen it? And you now have some analysts
coming out and saying you have already
seen capitulation in certain pockets and
now people are going back in.
Ultimately, I don't know how you get a
handle on this market. What has changed
is if you ignore what Trump says, what
he does has changed. And that's the
sense that there already is a marine
expeditionary unit in the region.
There's another in another amphibious
assault ship heading to the region. And
the 82nd Airborne was already deployed.
So things on the ground have actually
changed which show that this
administration is serious when it comes
to escalating to deescalating. The
president in this truth is just giving
the Iranians potentially one last chance
for an offramp.
>> Here's another thing that's changed and
is the data. It's an early read on how
inflation's going to look. How things
will change through the month of March
and into April. This from Germany. CPI
year-over-year. It was 2%, it's now
2.8%. Get used to seeing more of those
kind of numbers over the next few weeks.
>> Yeah. And actually, I would say that
these are the data points that actually
are going to be much more interesting
than even the key jobs figure that comes
out on Friday. Not only CPI that's going
to be released in Europe throughout the
day, but also the ISM manufacturing
numbers and prices paid that we get on
Wednesday. That's the real time
information that a lot of people are
looking for to understand exactly what
companies are having to fork over and
what kind of potential hit there could
be to growth.
>> Big hour coming up. Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Judy Beal
of Kane Anderson Runick as President
Trump renews threats against Iran if a
deal isn't made soon. Neil Meta of
Goldman Sachs with crude prices heading
for a record monthly rise and Ed Yadeni
of Yatani Research saying the bond
vigilantes are making a comeback. We
begin this hour with our top story.
President Donald Trump pushing Iran to
make a deal, renewing threats to strike
energy, infrastructure and more.
Bloomberg's Jamala Beti joins us now
from Dubai. So Jamanna, on the one hand,
we're making progress on the other.
Those threats still linger.
>> Well, I'm going to take you back eight
hours. When I was doing my show,
futures, US futures were down half a
percent. And then President Trump gave
some comments to reporters on Air Force
One. He indicated that they could be
making a deal with Iran in the next few
days. Futures went positive and then
obviously now he's come out with this
post suggesting that they could be uh
probably making a deal with a more
reasonable Iranian regime. If not, then
of course he he has threatened once
again uh to strike some of those power
plants and key energy infrastructure
units in Iran. Now the point here is who
exactly are they talking to? And this is
the question that we raised last week.
There was an opportunity for the two
sides to meet in Islamabad over the
course of the weekend. We know that a
meeting took place mediated by Pakistan
but with foreign ministers of other
regional powers there. We had Egypt, we
had Turkey, we had Sa Saudi Arabia. We
did not have Iran representation and we
did not have US representation. So most
definitely there there's an attempt from
the region at least some of the
mediators from the region to push
through the diplomatic channels. But
then the question is who is going to be
the person on the Iranian side.
President Trump himself has said
essentially that the Ayatollah is is
nonpresent. The new Ayatollah, nobody's
really seen him since he was appointed a
couple of weeks ago. uh you have the
speaker of the parliament who continues
to taunt President Trump on on social
media and in fact has mentioned his
jawboning of the market and then you
have the foreign minister Abbasi who
just a couple of days ago has mentioned
the lack of trust between the two sides
and he specifically referenced the fact
that on the day that President Trump
pushed back that deadline to April the
6th uh Israeli strikes then uh they is
the Israeli forces conducted some
strikes against steel facilities and
those nuclear research facilities in
Iran And on the back of that, they had
to retaliate against some of these Gulf
Arab states. So there's a question of
trust here, but then also who exactly is
going to be representing the Iranians on
the other side and whether that person
actually has the clout to convince the
clerics and also the hardliner
revolutionary guards. So you know, as
ever, I think you have to read this with
a grain of salt, but there is an attempt
from the region to deescalate. At the
same time, let's be mindful of all of
the troops and the military assets that
are being deployed to the region.
>> Jamanna, just one line in the
president's statement at 7:30 jumped off
the page to me and it was in brackets.
Desalination plants. Jamanna, you're in
Dubai. How concerned do you think Gulf
Partners would be about the prospect of
them striking desalination plants?
John, Iran actually hit a dissalination
plant in Kuwait over the last 24 hours
and it's it's it hasn't been that you
know it it's sort of gone a little bit
under the radar but actually many Gulf
Arab states are very quick to condemn
that attack. H it didn't actually cause
any disruption to water supplies in
Kuwait. But it does tell you that this
is a key and would be a key gamecher for
the region. Not least because around 90%
of the water that we consume over here
in the GCC region comes from desalinated
water. It would be deemed an extreme
escalation and an outcome that everyone
over here wants to avoid. So initially
when he postponed that deadline to April
the 5th, it was met with a bit of
relief. But from Iran's perspective and
at least the fact that they went after
this Kuwaiti dissalination plant over
the weekend suggests that from their
perspective, anything is on the table
still.
>> Jamal, I appreciate the update. Thanks
for making time for us. Jamaica Beti
there of Bloomberg leading our coverage
of this war out of the region to state
the obvious that would be a major major
escalation.
>> That is the bulk of the water as she
said 90% when you look at some of the
regions is actually 99% of the water for
cutter right so you're talking about
some of the attacks here. What you end
up with is a crisis that is humanitarian
in nature very quickly. And that's what
everyone in the region and beyond wants
to avoid.
>> Already we're seeing humanitarian crisis
in the sense that there have been
civilian infrastructure that's been hit
and also humanitarian crisis on serious
levels in Asia when it comes to the
energy shock. But if desalination plants
were hit, that is going to be massive
across the region and you'd probably see
mass migration, individuals just trying
to catch any flight out anywhere for
safety.
>> Let's get to the market. Difficult to
make that transition, but we've got to.
Let's talk to Judy Bill of Kane Anderson
RDN. Judy, welcome to the program.
Stocks are higher, bond yields are
lower. Can we sit on the bond piece of
things first? It felt like things
switched on Friday in the back half of
the session where investors began to
price in lower growth and lower yields.
What do you think's behind the move?
>> Well, I I think people are starting to
really recognize that you know what, I
think these oil prices are probably here
to stay because there's so much damage
to the infrastructure. And if that's the
case, we know that there can be real
meaningful demand destruction. And a lot
of what led inflation right in the last
period of the 2021 2022 period was just
too much demand for too few goods. And
so if we have real demand destruction
for the worst reasons, right, just the
paycheck is eaten so much by oil prices.
It is a negative thing, but it does mean
that there are limits to how
inflationary this t time period can be
and I think what it can mean for the
overall growth of the economy. What does
it mean for how long the Fed will sit
this out before they step in and do
something about the hit to growth?
>> I I do think that until we have more
clear data, it doesn't make sense for
them to make a lot of movements one way
or the other. Their biggest problem is
just that the data itself is so noisy,
right? We've had so many adjustments in
terms of jobs. We had all of the
problems in terms of the government
shutdown. It makes it really difficult
for them. And I think that their their
upside and downside scenarios of whether
they make a move, whether it's to cut or
to raise, it's high. So for them, I
don't I think that there's just more
benefit in being able to stand pat
before really making a decision.
>> Julie, there's been a discussion around
complacency in markets, a sense that in
risk assets in the US in particular,
there really hasn't been recognition of
some of the carnage that we're seeing uh
expressed in oil markets, particularly
physical oil markets. What's your sense
of just where sentiment is right now in
risk assets?
>> You know, I think that most people have
a lot of anxiety and there's good reason
for there to be anxiety, right? It's not
just this. It's, you know, is AI going
to continue the way that we're hoping it
is. Are we going to see a meltdown in
private credit? You know, most people
that I talk to, they're not having a
great time at the office these days. But
I think that there's a force that's more
powerful than that. You know, like let's
set aside FOMO. FOMO is something that
happens in college. It's pomo. The pain
of missing out on a day like last year
when we had liber post liberation day
and Trump said never mind and the
markets rallied 9%. If you were not on
risk assets at that time, you had a very
hard time making it up for the rest of
the year. There's real pain in not being
in the market when things revert really
quickly on the just on the blink of an
eye. Now, it's interesting, right?
because based off of Trump's comments,
people are starting to realize there's a
little bit of a boy who cried wolf
element to that. But I think that that
really limits how much people really get
risk off. They can be realistic. They
can have a little bit of a cash
position, but they recognize that things
can change very quickly, and if they
miss out, it really hurts the rest of
the year.
>> How long can this go on, Julie, before
people realize that there's not going to
be a quick snapback like what we saw
after Liberation Day?
I I think that there really has to be a
recognition of not just prices at the
pump, but prices through the rest of the
supply chain. I think is the moment that
people recognize that this takes more
time than expected. And I think what's
very difficult is this war feels very
very opaque to a lot of people. If you
remember just the Iraq war, right, every
day on the news, you had images of what
was going on there. And now we have an
administration that prefers to use memes
and cartoons and you know movie clips to
describe this war. So I don't think
people have any real indication of what
the damage looks like and how long
lasting it really is. It's very easy to
kind of blow up infrastructure to
rebuild it is very very painful. And I
think it's unclear how companies can
really shift their supply chains around
when an input as basic as oil as
fertilizer as natural gas ripples
through the rest of the pricing.
>> Judy, it's always good to catch up.
Thanks for jumping on for us. Judy Bill
there of Kas and Runnik. Her reaction to
that statement from the president just
moments ago and her thoughts on where we
are in this market. Plenty of debate on
Wall Street about how wellpriced we are
for a hit to growth. Morgan Stanley's
Mike Wilson really pushing back this
morning for his note to start the week.
We think the equity market is less
complacent on growth risk than consensus
believes. The S&P's forward PE ratio has
now compressed by 17%.
>> At the same time that you're seeing
earnings expectations increase from a
lot of companies and a number of
different strategists have pointed to
this, adding that the United States is
in a better position strategically than
the rest of the world based on its oil
and and natural gas supplies. That said,
at a certain point, you're going to
start to see consumer demand, and you're
not seeing it to the extent that some
people would expect in consumer
discretionaries.
>> Just about holding on to gains this
morning on the S&P 500, following an
almost 9% decline off the highs earlier
this year on the S&P. We're positive by
0.6%. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yhara has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump posting new
threats to Iran. Trump saying that the
US will destroy Iran's electric plants,
oil wells, desalination plants, and the
key sites of Carg Island if a deal is
not shortly reached to reopen the
streets of Hormuse. The president saying
a deal will still quote probably be
reached.
Banks led by JP Morgan are facing push
back on the terms of a 7 billion debt
deal to fund a takeover of Sealed Air.
sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that the deal is sparking concerns it
could give private equity firm CD and R
the option to spin off either sealed
air's food or protective reporting units
and Air Canada CEO is stepping down
following the deadly runway crash at
LaGuardia airport. Canadian Prime
Minister Mark Carney reprimanded the CEO
for releasing a statement in English
with only two French words. The airline
is headquartered in Montreal, Quebec,
where French is the primary language.
That's your brief, John.
>> Hey, you too.
>> Yhierra, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on a program, the morning calls,
plus Neil Meta of Goldman Sachs with
President Donald Trump renewing his
threats to destroy Iranian energy
infrastructure. Live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Stocks holding on to gains up by 0.6% on
the S&P 500 following a fifth
consecutive week of losses on the S&P.
The longest losing streak going back to
2022 on the S&P 500. down from the highs
by almost 9%. This morning, a bounce of
6/10 of 1% following the biggest 2-day
decline going back to April. It's been
painful in this equity market. It's not
just been about the Middle East. Big
tech in focus, too. And those problems
predate this war.
>> It's a question about how much they're
spending. It's a question about AI
disruption. It's a question about
regulatory push back given the lawsuit
uh that Meta lost over social media and
the influence there. That said, you do
have a growing number of contrarian
investors saying maybe this is a time to
buy given the fact that the earnings
picture look looks pretty good. Question
is, how much are those earnings upgrades
factoring in the higher hit from prices
that we're going to see from oil that
we're going to see from gas for a long
period of time?
>> Are we starting to price in slower
growth? Check out the bond market. 210
30. Something happened at the back half
of the session on Friday. This equity
market closed at the lows. The 2-year
yield did as well. And we're down
another five basis points this morning.
386. starting to push out that rate hike
stuff and starting to price in a much
bigger hit to economic growth.
>> Yeah, people had gotten carried away
according to some strategists with how
many rate hikes they've been pricing in
particularly in Europe. Now the question
is how much can they really hike rates
into a growth shock as has been every
single previous oil spike that we've
seen to date.
>> Brent crude right now 115 WTI triple
digits 101. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, Jeffre upgrading Expedia to a buy
saying it's less exposed to geopolitical
risk. That stock is up by 2.5%. Your
second call from Morgan Stanley cutting
its price target on Meta to 775, noting
fears around Gen AI is weighing on
sentiment. Meta up this morning, but
down hard last week, negative 11% just
last week. And your third and final call
from RBC raising its price target on
Kinder Morgan to 35, highlighting
commodity prices as a benefit to its
estimates. That stock is up by a little
more than 1% this morning. Let's stand
our top story. The president renewing
his threats to destroy Iran's energy
infrastructure, including K Island, if
no deal is reached to end this war. Neil
Meta of Goldman Sachs writing the
following. If commodity prices surprise
to the upside in 27, as our analysts now
forecast, it would provide support to
our base case valuations, which use a
view of $75 a barrel on Brent. Neil
joins us now for more. Neil, good
morning.
>> Thank you for the opportunity. Hey,
>> it's good to see you. Let's break it
upstream, downstream, but let's start
midstream. How squeezed are all oil
services right now?
>> Yeah, so I'd say oil services companies
uh there are a number of them that we do
have a constructive view on still. Uh
Hallebertton and uh and SlumberJ as well
SLB I would say. Uh activity in the
Middle East is definitely going to be
down. Uh you will see a pick up on some
activity here in the US I would say. uh
but as we look at uh the outlook on a
multi-year basis there are still some
opportunities here in the services
complex particularly Hallebertton which
is a good blend of the US side and the
international side
>> before we turn to the Middle East and
the damage done just on the US side how
tight is the relationship between
activity and price
>> very tight I would say as we look today
IDA per fleet is around $18 million at
peak we were in the 30s I do think
there's an opportunity for some pricing
for US land to move back into the mid20s
Before we get to that destruction, how
much are you seeing any oil companies
considering in the US increasing
production in response to the increase
in pricing?
>> Yeah, we spent a lot of time over the
last couple of weeks spending time with
our management teams trying to evaluate
whether there will be a change in
activity. Uh and so far the answer has
been it's quite muted. I think when I
when our companies make decisions about
taking up activity, they're not looking
at the front of the oil curve which as
he noted is $115 a barrel. They're
looking at the backs. They're looking at
27. they're looking at 28. Uh the
deferred oil price is still in the low
70s sprint. And so it's not giving a
signal to the market to meaningfully
increase activity. And I think the big
picture is that the US has gone from 5
million barrels a day to 13 to 14
million barrels a day. So shale is
already at a point of relative maturity.
Inventory is starting to get dwindled
down a little bit. And so the companies
have less inventory to aggressively grow
into, which is part of the reason we're
long-term constructive on the price of
oil because as shale matures, demand
still grows and there are few fewer
projects internationally. It does set up
for a more constructive long-term price
environment notwithstanding the front of
the curve, which I think is fairly
impossible to predict right now.
>> Well, the back end of the curve, let's
get into that. Given the fact that
you're pretty constructive on that going
higher, in other words, oil prices going
higher uh than they currently are 6 12
uh and even 24 months out. Part of that
is the destruction to facilities in the
Middle East. How much do you see actual
real destruction to both natural gas and
oil facilities that could potentially
take years to come back online?
>> I think that in our coverage, the one
asset that has been impacted is Qar. Um
the Qar LG facility which is in the
process of growing and will continue to
grow over the next couple years. Um
Exxon Mobile uh has two uh two trains
that were impacted significantly. It's
difficult to know the magnitude of the
damage. Uh the operator is saying it
could extend 3 to 5 years to get that
fully repaired. Uh some of those
expansions, Northfield uh south uh
expansion and then Northfield uh the
Northfield expansion itself uh are
likely going to be delayed. For our
modeling purposes, we push it back about
6 months. And so this global gas glut uh
which looked uh very apparent for 2027
does look like it's been pushed out to
the right. As far as oil, I think it's
too early to make that call. uh whether
there's been meaningful infrastructure
impacts. Uh we'll continue to watch it.
At a minimum, we need to start talking
about putting geopolitical risk premium
back into the long end of the oil curve,
which at in the low70s doesn't reflect
uh the increased risk, especially with
dwindled OPEC spare capacity in the
market.
>> Let's stay on that. This is an important
topic because some comfort in the equity
market is coming from the backwardation
in the curve.
>> Just the idea, if you don't follow crude
closely, that crude prices further out,
looking further out, are lower than
where they are right now. How far up do
you think they need to come from the 70s
to what?
>> Yeah, I I our base case modeling as we
said was $75 Brent. The biased on the
long term uh would would be uh would be
higher for three reasons. One, shale is
maturing. Two, you have demand that's
going to grow on our modeling till at
least 2035 with a bias that it's
actually longer. And when we modeled the
large projects, we call them the top
projects that are coming in. There are a
ton of projects that came in in 25.
There were a ton of projects that came
in 26. There are very few projects, big
projects that come in 27. And at the end
of the day, the backs are also going to
be correlated with the extent of OPEC
spare capacity. Saudi producing in the
low tens right now, I I think they will
struggle to produce well above 10 12 to
11 on a sustained basis. So when when
you have OPEC spare capacity that has
now been dwindled down along with the
maturity of the US and the growth, I do
think you need to move higher. We use 75
for modeling. It is not crazy to think
of scenarios where the back end needs to
move into the eight handle.
>> Let's say we get to the 80s. Who's best
positioned to take advantage of that
curve?
>> You want to own the companies that are
have long depth of inventory. And so I
think that the stock that we have on our
conviction list right now is Kico
Phillips. I think if you have an asset
in the United States uh meaning lower 48
like the Perian or Alaska or Canada, it
is inherently more valuable today than
it was on January 1st. But you need to
have depth of inventory which there are
fewer companies that have it. Kico
Phillips is that stock for us.
>> That stock right now is up in a
pre-market by 1%. Neil, it's good to see
you. Thank you, sir. Great to see you.
>> No matter there of Goldman Sachs on this
energy market and adjusting the long end
of the curve.
>> Yeah, given the fact that there is some
destruction to these plants, but really
more importantly, and it's the point
that Jeff Curry was talking about that
risk premium that needs to go on pricing
based on the geopolitical backdrop.
Something that a lot of people are
talking about, doesn't seem to be priced
in at this point. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Nancy Desar
of Piper Sander. Looking ahead to a busy
week of economic data. Danny has your
morning movers, energy stocks jumping on
renewed infrastructure threats, plus
this. Don't miss this in a few minutes
time. Amarie back in the studio right
now. Just getting off the phone from a
conversation with the president of the
United States. The headlines from that
conversation on the other side that's
about 3 minutes away.
A lot of damage was done in this equity
market last week on the S&P 500. The
worst week, the biggest weekly decline
we've seen so far this year, gone back
to October. On the NASDAQ, the worst
week since April of last year. On the
NASDAQ this morning, high by 3/4 of 1%
on the S&P 500. Likewise, in the bond
market, yields down across the curve,
twos out to 30s. 10's down by five. Call
it six basis points lower at 437. As
these moves hold, Brent and WTI, Brent
crude at around 115 all morning, 11470
right now. And WTI back in triple digits
1.
moments ago, An Marie on the phone with
the president of the United States,
speaking to him about where we are in
this war.
>> Very briefly, he said he's very busy
this morning, but he wanted to reiterate
that he thinks the United States is
doing very well. The war, he says, is
going quote unbelievably well. And then
this is what he left me with that stuck
with me. They want to settle. He said,
that's all I can say. They want to
settle. So right now the president of
the United States is projecting and
socializing to me in the world that the
Iranians want to settle as this comes
off the heels of his long truth social
post where he's saying almost this is
their last opportunity to go to the
table or there's going to be massive
reckoning when it comes to what he is
calling things that he wants to quote
obliterate electric generating plants
oil wells Car Island and maybe even
desalination plants. At the same time,
the Iranians are denying they're
engaging in a diplomatic effort through
the Iranian state media again this
morning. They say they didn't
participate in the meetings in Pakistan.
They say the US demands are excessive.
The president says we're making
progress. I think we're all trying to
figure out where precisely we're making
progress.
>> Where is the progress made? Also, when
his truth social post came out, when he
talks about if if a deal is not shortly
reached, what does shortly mean? Are we
talking about days? Are we talking about
weeks? Are we talking about months? So I
think it's important to remember not so
much what the president says but what he
does and what has changed over the
course of the last week is now we have
Marines in the region. We also have
soldiers in the region right now and
potentially given the reporting over the
weekend the president of United States
is awaying sending even more. There is a
self-imposed deadline. That self-imposed
deadline currently is April 6th. And now
we know the additional threats read as
follows from the president obliterating
all of their electric generating plants,
oil wells, Car Island. And in this
statement from the president earlier on
this morning, the threat of possibly all
desalination plants. And I keep going
back to that because I imagine that's
going to make partners in the region
very nervous.
>> That's the bulk of their drinking water
for civilians. There was a a
desalination plant that was hit in
Kuwait as we were hearing from Jumanna.
A question about how much this would
escalate. Also a question of how there
is some sort of agreement that could
potentially come to the four. It is the
fog of war on steroids. There is a sense
that nobody can really get a handle of
what's going on on the ground, what's
going on around the ground. And that's
part of the reason why there is a a huge
range of outcomes that are potentially
at play here.
>> And the president in his truth and he
talks about this a few times. He does
feel like the regime has changed. Even
though it's not what he says, regime
change, it's changed within. Meaning top
brass has been taken out. But a lot of
analysts you talk to will say that the
individuals he's still dealing with,
maybe some of the lower level that are
now rising the ranks because the others
have been eliminated. They are hardened
by what has happened. These are people
who are still trying to avenge for
Kasamsulammani and now they have to
avenge for the Ayatollah and others who
were taken out by these Israeli strikes.
That's the setup this morning. Stocks
are positive by 0.8%. Let's get you some
morning movers. Danny standing by with
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. I want to look through some of
the industries that have been affected
from the war in Iran. First starting out
with the best performing sector month to
date. It is no surprise it is the oil
majors. Exxon, Chevron, accidental
petroleum. They're all up this morning
off the highs of this morning. They did
seem to reach there after the
president's truth social post talking
about as you've been saying negotiations
but the threat of escalation. All these
companies up in the low teens so far
this month. Then there are the
fertilizer companies. This is
interesting because they've had a little
bit of a varying fortune. Uh CF
Industries for example is up 13% monthto
date but Mosaic is actually down. The
straight of hormuse also an important
waterway for getting various components
that go into fertilizer something we've
been tracking. These are also holding on
to their gains up around one and a half%
for all these fertilizer companies.
Finally, the new grouping of companies
that have joined in on the rally over
fear of what's happening in Iran is
aluminum companies. They have been
falling monthtodate because there was a
fear of slower growth because of what's
happening in the Middle East and that's
effect on inflation. But now we learned
over the weekend that aluminum producing
plants were hit from Iranian forces and
and strikes. So Alcoa Century Aluminum,
they are up uh double digits this
morning, John, 10.7% and 12.6 for
Century Aluminum. Danny Burgerer, thank
you. Danny, appreciate it. Look out for
Danny Burgerer at the top of the hour
about 25 minutes from now to guide you
towards the opening bell at 9:30 Eastern
time. Looking ahead, a busy week of
economic data on deck wrapping up with
the payrolls report this coming Friday.
Also later on this morning, the chairman
of the Federal Reserve speaking at 10:30
Eastern time for a preview. Bloomberg's
Ander Curran joins us now for more. And
uh how useful, how instructive is this
data this week?
>> Well, look, payrolls is going to be the
highlight, John. There's no doubt about
it. Expected h increase there of 60,000.
Jobs added, reversing that big 90 odd
thousand decline in February.
Unemployment expected to stay around
4.4%. There's some idiosyncratic factors
there around weather and a health strike
behind that rebound. But nonetheless, if
those jobs numbers come in on Friday
around those numbers, that indicates
that the labor market is as you were.
It's not necessarily very strong, but
neither are we in the mass layoff
territory just yet. That of course feeds
into the whole broader Fed story about
uh you know their scope to cut or are
they going to stay on hold? It would
truly suggest they have room to stay on
hold perhaps for a little while longer.
We also get retail sales this week that
will be important to keep an eye on.
Expecting some firm numbers there in the
back of car sales. And then John, as you
mentioned at the beginning, we do of
course have Fed Chair Powell coming out
later today. He may or may not give some
new signals on what he's thinking about
the impact on energy prices and
inflation from the Iran war, but
probably not expected to move the needle
too much. I think given he just spoke
only recently after their policy
decision.
>> And what is the current posture of the
Federal Reserve? What do they seem to be
getting behind at the moment?
>> I think it's look very much a wait and
see. John, we had that a few weeks ago
with Cher Powell after the Fed press
conference. They don't yet know. It's
probably an open mind in terms of how
the energy shock will ultimately impact
core inflation. We all know that yes,
prices will go inflation goes up
near-term, but do they look through that
and wait to see what the second round
effects are on in terms of people's
spending on in terms of the impact on
businesses and households? As I say, we
get the retail sales data this week.
They're expected to hold up, but
eventually that shoe will start to drop.
We're in the worst energy shock in
decades. It is expected that will start
to hit business people, small
businesses, large businesses and
households. And when that impacts
confidence and spending, then you'll
start to see, I think, some movement in
the Fed debate. But right here, right
now, I think it still remains very much.
They don't yet know too much
uncertainty. And they kind of want to
see how this plays out in the weeks
ahead.
>> They're looking to sit this one out, at
least so far. Ender, thank you. Ender
Curran down in Washington DC. Nancy
Lazar of Piper Sander writes the
following. ignore the unreliable and
often revised payroll data which are
currently weak. Nancy joins us now for
more. Nancy, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is this war another reason to ignore?
>> Uh, for sure. Uh, payroll employment is
just a lousy data set. If you if you
were the company that produced payroll,
would you as an investor buy that
company? Their data are constantly being
revised down. uh since 2022 80% of the
time payrolls were revised down and then
at the end of the day we got the QCW
data and it was revised down another
almost 900,000. So uh to be sure uh war
the war could clip uh employment growth
but payrolls are not the data to look
at. Unemployment claims are a much
better measure of actually what's going
on from the labor market perspective.
>> Well looking at claims it screams things
are absolutely fantastic right now
around 200k. Yeah, I uh did some work
over the weekend and unemployment claims
have high correlation with swings in
employment. I tend to use the household
employment data and they're suggesting
if anything we should be seeing a
reaceleration in employment growth. We
saw the regional Fed manufacturing
indices last week and their uh current
and future employment indices uh were
all up and so there is claims aren't the
only measure out there suggesting the
labor market is healing. Seems like the
labor market right now is taking a
backseat just because it's a slower
moving train than some of the other
indicators that could be coming out. We
got earlier as John was mentioning
German's uh preliminary harmonized CPI
which came in at the fastest pace in
about a year. You have uh the ISM
manufacturing data coming out from the
United States. How many how much more
important is these are these data points
given the fact that we're looking for
real time influence? So, higher oil
prices impact CPI data very quickly, if
not immediately. And so, we would uh
it's not surprising, you saw the German
data. We're going to get our data later
uh in the month. Uh they're going to
show a pretty big increase of 0.6%. But
historically, it does take time for
changes in oil prices to work their way
into the economy. It can't just be a
one-time blip. It needs to be a
sustained shift up. Um, and so I I I I I
would argue that looking at the
employment data that we do have that's
reliable, the fact that it's healthy,
uh, is a sign that we have a pretty
strong backbone, I overuse that word,
uh, pretty strong backbone in the US
economy. Business confidence is solid.
Uh, earnings are improving, not just
large companies, but smaller uh,
businesses. And so, uh, to be sure, this
oil could derail things, but at the end
of the day, going into it, unlike 1990,
uh, unlike, uh, 2008, the backbone of
the US economy is pretty healthy. There
are two potential scenarios. On one
hand, this would be a real hit to growth
and potentially would pressure the Fed
from having to or being able to raise
rates in response to some sort of shock.
On the other hand, if you do think that
the economy is that strong, why isn't
this even more of an inflationary shock
that would prompt some sort of response
from the Fed?
>> Well, the economy is solid. I don't want
to say it's strong and at uh, you know,
at risk of overheating. There's a
difference. We are in the early stages.
Our view was of a reaceleration in the
economy where you don't yet have a labor
market strains where you don't have a
labor market to say the least that's too
strong. So we're early stages in this
improvement in the labor market. So uh
our argument would be energy is a tax on
the US economy similar to what we saw in
the world economy similar to what we saw
with the tariffs a year ago. Um and
actually the Fed in the back half of
2025 cut rates because it was a
headwind. We're not looking for any
change uh in in Fed policy. That's not
what I do. But given economic
conditions, we would argue that the Fed
doesn't need to cut rates. Um, and this
health and labor market and business
confidence and manufacturing surveys
would all point in that direction.
>> Nancy, it sounds like you think what the
Fed does, what they did with tariffs.
Look through it, it could potentially be
a hit, but it's only once. Price
adjustment.
>> Yeah, exactly. It was a one-time hit.
They understood that uh this is very
different than the 1970s. This is not
stagflation. Allah the 1970s when you
had doubledigit increases in both money
supply and government spending. the Fed
way behind the curve, shoving rates down
too low. Nixon put in place wage price
controls 7173 which totally distorted uh
the inflationary backdrop. And so this
is not a stagflationary environment. Uh
we think this is a obvious temporary
risk to the economy uh associated with a
one-time hit to higher oil prices.
>> How do you define temporary? We're
already a month in.
>> Good point. Uh you know, the duration
does matter here and and and our view
has been that it takes time for higher
oil prices. We saw that back in uh 2021.
Oil rose sharply in 2021. Uh and it
wasn't until early 22 that you started
to see the the effects uh the effects of
that. So uh if this were to last for 6
to 12 months, then I would worry we have
3% kind of as our base case for growth
in the United States. 3% uh this year 3%
maybe even in 27 given monetary, fiscal
policy and productivity. Uh but at the
end of the day, if you do move up toward
um 100 120 and stay there, that three is
at risk of shifting down something
closer to uh 2%.
>> Nancy, good to see you. Thanks for the
update. Thank you, Nancy Lazada of Piper
Sander. I don't even want to begin to
think about what it would look like if
the straight reformers were still closed
6 to 12 months out.
>> This is all people care about. And as we
were talking about why the labor market
report isn't going to matter, Andrew
Hollen Horse puts out a note saying,
"The labor market report isn't going to
matter. Even if the jobs report is more
surprising, energy prices may continue
to dominate fundamental economic data in
the US. In other words, we can't gain
them out. But those concerns are what
hover again hover over every single
projection out there on Wall Street.
>> And the straight of her moves at this
moment is just one risk now added with
the Houthis entering into the conflict
this weekend. potentially if you start
to see any sort of conflict or the
Houthis firing off missiles or drones in
the Red Sea that is also going to impede
the flow of traffic in the Red Sea in
the Bob Elmund straight and then you
have two choke points. I don't see how
Brent stays at this level. I don't see
how it doesn't go closer to $150 a
barrel
>> Brent right now around 115 11450. Let's
give him an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Yahara has
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. President Trump posting new
threats to Iran on truth social. Trump
saying that the US will destroy Iran's
electric plants, oil wells,
disselination plants, and the key sites
of Carg Island if a deal is not reached
soon to reopen the streets of Hermoose.
San Marie spoke to the president a few
minutes ago, and he told her Iran wants
to settle.
The Spanish government announcing it's
closing the country's airspace and bases
to US planes carrying out missions in
Iran. Spanish newspaper El Pais
reporting that the country is only
allowing the transit or landing of
planes in cases of emergency.
And for the first time in more than 50
years, NASA is sending astronauts back
to the moon. The Aremis 2 mission is set
to launch on Wednesday. will take the
astronauts on a 10-day journey that will
go to the moon without landing and then
return to Earth. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate the update
and thanks for this morning. Up next on
the program, we'll set you up for the
day ahead. Plus, Ed Yardeni of Yardi
Research saying the BOD vigilantes are
making a comeback. That conversation up
next.
Inflation risk is already being priced
by the rates market. That's why you have
seen the yield curve flatten quite
significantly. The front end is up, you
know. So I think we take a step back and
say what if oil stays let's say 100 or
above for an extended period of time. In
the worst case it's not just inflation
it's growth. It means your curve can
actually get inverted. That's the worst
case. It's not their base case. That was
Venu Krishna of Barclays. The base case
is earnings are going to be fine and
this S&P 500 could climb to 7650 by year
end. They actually increased their
target on the S&P 500 in the last week
against the backdrop of a war that
continues. Equity futures near session
highs up by 0.8% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ up by three quarters to 1% yields
are down across the curve twos, tens,
and 30s. 10-year bond yields declining
by six basis points this morning. 43661
and crude elevated holding on to gains.
Brink crude around 115 all morning. WTI
around 100 and Marie about 30 minutes
ago on the phone with the president of
the United States. The president saying
we're making progress and they're
desperate for a deal.
>> Yeah. He says the Iranians want to
settle. He said that's all I can say.
They want to settle. It's very different
than what we're hearing in terms of what
the regime is saying. They're saying
that they're not really engaging right
now when it comes to the diplomatic
talks which we saw take place over the
weekend when it comes to Pakistan. I
think the president's truth social today
basically giving the Iranians one last
ditch effort because you have to
remember it's not just what the
president says, it's what he does. And
now there's a mass amount of troops
right now that are trained for things
like taking over an island. So
potentially when the president tells the
FT as well, you know, we want all the
oil, that means Car Island.
>> For market participants, this is a
complex moment. Lisa's talked about this
a million times. How do you get an edge
in a moment like this? What is your
anchor? Looking out 6 12 months, maybe
beyond. How reliable is the economic
data? We've got a week full of it.
You'll get payrolls on Friday. The Fed
chair speaks later on this morning,
10:30 Eastern time. A lot of people
think he's just going to sit this out.
Can't really get guidance from the
Federal Reserve. They're not going to
provide an anchor for you. The data on
Friday is not going to provide an anchor
for you because a lot of this is subject
to change in the next several weeks,
>> which is why things have been swinging
around such significant degree. One
thing that people are doing is analyzing
what they know, which is the earnings
expectations that have been going up,
which is the reason why Vina Krushn as
well as uh Mike Wilson over at Morgan
Stanley have been upgrading their
expectations for equities. That said, we
don't understand the monetary policy
response and we don't understand the
fiscal policy response. And those are
two key components to this entire
situation.
>> Let's turn to the bond market. Think
about where we closed on Friday going
into the weekend. These kind of levels.
A 10-year bond yield at the highest
level we've seen since last summer. In
the UK, the highest level since 2008. In
Germany, the highest level since 2011.
In Japan, the highest levels we've seen
since the 1990s. Are the vigilantes
back? This is what Ed Yarden of our
Denny research has got to say. The bond
vigilantes are back taking matters into
their own hands and tightening credit
conditions. Ed joins us now for more.
Ed, welcome back to the program, buddy.
Let's just sit on that because some
people believe that maybe the buying has
started on Friday and continued into
this morning. Where are you on that?
Well, I I think we're going to continue
to see bond yields fluctuate at these
levels which are relatively high and
relatively uh tight in terms of their
impact on the the the credit markets. Uh
clearly we've got uh a bullish and
bearish uh uh tug-of-war going on here.
Um uh this this morning uh you folks
Bloomberg has uh uh you you've posted an
article on how bond yields have come
down a bit uh and suddenly the market
focusing on the fact that this oil shock
could slow global economic activity. On
the other hand, we got to these high
levels over the past few weeks on
worries about higher inflation. And I
think it's pretty clear that inflation
is going higher. It's not clear that the
global economy is going to be as as as
weak as uh the bond market uh would like
to see, but we'll we'll we'll have to
look. As you said, a lot of known
unknowns and uh unknown unknowns
>> for sure. Do you think the fiscal offset
that some countries might provide to
cushion the energy shock might
contribute to higher bond yields from
here?
>> Well, I think clearly uh inflation
concerns have mounted. In turn, that
means that uh monetary policy, which was
uh widely expected to ease around the
world, now is expected to not to ease
and possibly uh to tighten. And as you
uh add here, there's also a concern that
uh uh governments around the world are
going to have to spend more on defense.
So, that's going to increase uh
deficits. And then they might also need
to spend more on stimulating their
economies if we get a real kind of
stagflationary environment with the
emphasis on the stags, much slower
economic growth.
>> Ed, we've talked about bond vigilantes
coming out of hiding and then quickly
going back into hiding time and time
again over the past couple of years. Are
we really reaching the point at which
bond markets are not going to finance
some of the fiscal hopes and dreams of
developed market nations as they face
off with another shock?
Well, it's it's a good point and I think
um the bond market clearly has the
attention of politicians. Uh we saw that
uh just last year with Liberation Day on
April 2nd uh when Trump imposed his
reciprocal tariffs and by April 9th he
postponed Liberation Day because of the
backup in bond yields. Uh, so the bomb
vigilantes uh do get the attention of
the folks in in the White House. And uh,
by the way, I think that's one of the
reasons they might have postponed their
two-day ultimatum into a 5-day ultimatum
and then a 10-day ultimatum is they they
were concerned by the backup in bond
yields and by the weakness in the stock
market. So the financial markets uh are
having a vigilante impact on policym
>> perhaps they are. Although there is talk
right now in Washington DC of Congress
coming together with another stimulus
package as part of the reconciliation of
the current dispute uh going on. What do
you think the market's response would be
to that? I'm talking about 10ear yields
in particular.
>> Well, I think it's a any any uh
continued uh widening of the deficit uh
I think is fundamentally a bearish
development. And so, uh, stimulus in,
you know, we before the war, we all
thought there was plenty of stimulus
coming from, uh, last year's tax bills
with the refunds likely to be, uh, as
much as $1,000 extra for a lot of
people. And that's still in in in the
pipeline here. So, we already have
fiscal stimulus. Arguably, we also still
have monetary stimulus from the easing
that started a year and a half ago. uh
and to provide more fiscal stimulus and
then the president's asks for uh you
know asked for $200 billion in
additional defense spending. Uh well
that's that's you know a billion here a
billion there becomes a trillion pretty
pretty quickly and we all thought the
bond market that kind of learned to live
with withund $1.5 trillion in deficits.
Now let's see if we we may be stress
testing the bond market to see if it can
live with $2 trillion deficits at an
annual rate. Ed, always good to catch
up. Thank you, sir. Ed Yardani there of
Yardani research. It's an interesting
situation how consensus has shifted
coming into this year. Consensus view
was cyclical bounce and now consensus
view is you won't get second round
effects from the inflation spike because
the economy is not as strong. Find it
difficult to reconcile those two views.
Either you believe that the earnings
expectations are going up at companies
because the economy is strong and then
you've got a pass through of inflation
or you believe that demand destruction
is going to come into play and then some
of those earnings expectations have to
be overly optimistic. You are absolutely
correct. Which is it? And ultimately
this market is not choosing this market
is confused and rightly so.
>> Confused, rattled by a war in the Middle
East. the president speaking to Amarie a
little bit earlier on this hour saying
that this is going to wrap up pretty
quickly based on the conversation you've
had and the progress they're making in
talks so far.
>> He says the he says the progress of the
war is unbelievable. But then he said
they want to settle, which if you're a
market participant and the president is
saying they want to settle, you would
think potentially they do want to
settle, but the Iranians say they're
not. And you have to remember there's a
lot of troops right now and that buildup
has happened over the course of the past
week. I should say indicating things
could wrap up pretty quickly, but
they've been indicating that for quite a
while.
>> They have and maybe we're just at
another moment where you kick the can
down the road for a little bit longer.
>> The president, Tanagamry, Iran wants to
settle. Coming up tomorrow, Sebastian
Paige, Tro Price, and a whole lot more
from New York City. Have a wonderful
week.